Needed, and you are charged with the number of shots at an hourly date. Use partition keys to distribute the load across shots, retention, and ordering. So in SQS, you have retention by which the message stays. Let's say you send a message, and nothing is falling from it. I think by default, it's around 14 days. After 14 days, that must disappear. Same like that for you because it is also a managed service, you can't have data there permanently.

So, the time the data records are accessible after they are added to the stream is the retention period. It's default of 24 hours, but you can increase it up to 20 or more because it'll be charged for that. But ordering the records with the same partition key are strictly ordered within a shard. Use partition key design to balance throughput and ordering needs. By default, AWS takes care of the ordering; you don't have to worry about it.

Okay, this is KDS. Now, let's look at Kafka. Kafka is just exactly same as KDS, with some concepts being termed differently or the working being different, but now we're agnostic. KDS is completely for AWS, but if let's say how were things done? Our data integration, streaming, and everything before KDS was done. That's where Kafka comes into the picture.

Open-source distributed streaming system used for stream processing, real-time data pipelines, and data integration at scale. Same thing, high throughput, fault-tolerant event logs. Core abstractions: topics. Instead of stream, we call it topic, and stuff shard we call it partition. That's it. Producers write messages to topics, and consumers read from topics. Commonly self-managed or run via managed services like Confluent.

There's a simple diagram of how the broker looks inside it. Okay, let's look at the core concepts. You have a producer that sends records to a given topic and partition to a broker. A broker is something that hosts topics. Think of it like a middleman. Broker that's what it's called. So, topic one is the set of 8 blue blocks. You see that's completely one topic. Topic two is a complete set of red topic series. Computer for free within those, we have 8 partitions for each topic. Okay, straightforward.

And there's also one more thing. Let's just go slide by slide. Topic is named stream of records, partition for parallelism and scalability. A broker is a Kafka server that stores and manages messages in production systems. We usually have multiple brokers on your cluster. Think of it like ECS, you have multiple master nodes. If a broker goes down because of overload, you have another broker that's ready to go back into the pipeline.

The next thing is partition. Same as shard. Ordered append-only log of records replicated across brokers for durability. So, let's say broker 1 has 1, 2, and 3. Broker 2 might have 1, 3, and 4, with the exact partition. Remember in rate one, how is stripping done? So, let's see up three rates, and then you have a B and C. You have one part of a here, and then the next part away here. But this is like the sum or the product of part one and parts of a rate. Let's say the middle one goes. We can just divide the product first part of it to get back that. That's something like that you can do that, something like this. So, you don't need to store all the partitions here. Maybe you can store the first 5 years, and then the last 5 years. You can have some kind of overlap, but you need to make sure that if one broker goes down, you can somehow get that partition back. I'm saying, if you want to manage performance, you can't have all the partitions and all the brokers. Right? So, you can have some kind of operations such that addition or subtraction such that you can get that specific partition back.

In Kafka, yeah, no, the partition's like the broker takes care of handling these, but the partition logic and the topic logic you have control over that, but KDS you don't have control over that. For parallel processing, each topic is divided into partitions. Ordering is guaranteed only within a partition. Consumer group is a pool of consumers sharing work. Each portion assigned to one consumer in the group. So, let's say you have a set of consumers. Let's say this whole class is a consumer group, and all of your individual consumers. Let's say this is Bright Space. Right? And let's say all of you want to see in-class test one marks. So, all of you are polling to that same data, but these partitions, each of them can also be the same. In the partition level, brokers can be same, the partitions can be same as well. So, each partition is assigned to one consumer in the group. Let's say you pulled from the first partition, and then, the second student, and as soon as you stop, it can be assigned back to the third person like that. That's how it works in consumer groups.

So, this is the most important, I think, how working of Kafka works end-to-end.

So, any questions until you guys let me know if I'm going a little too fast. 、Okay so the tutorial is pretty easy today we just have data stream lambda s3 it's going to be done but i wanted to focus on the working of Kafka because it's really important can be asked in interviews as well we looked over most of it until now but let's go detail okay so working what's the first thing that happens producer creates a message or event right can look like a simple json payload like this you have user id you have what action it wants to be done and then you have a time stamp attached to it that's json and then sends it to kaka with the topic as user events Kafka can have multiple topics right and then you also specify the partition here so broker consists of various topics like orders payments user clicks all these are records of append only logs they can only append to these three and then each topic has its partition like let's say if you go to orders partition 0 1 2 you have those individual blocks and messages in the partitions partition itself is like a storage for all this data right a stored and ordered sequence using offsets so we use the concept of offsets to store it in the partition basically hash key hash table we talked about that right so i'll just show you how it works so let's say producer writes to partition which can happen either using key based routing or round dropping how does ebase routing work hash function that i told you partition equal to hash of e mod number of partitions because we specified uh partition is stored can directly go but usually you can give like key a secret key by which user id can always go to partition two or round robin let's say no fee is provided so in hash table what happens when you hit a conflict like let's say you want to store something yeah i mean that's one of the strategies but it does based on the algorithm it puts the load however you want there's also like i think something known as step size so i think it checks the next step if it's still blocked it takes like double the steps then four steps later eight steps later so it depends on the algorithm you pick you can do round robin so let's say you reach the end start back from the beginning and start the whole process but you need to make sure you manage the load across partitions log assigns an offset and stores it on disk like let's say partition one you have offset zero in the same partition as order created offset one as payment completed offset two as order shipped right now let's see how consumers work consumers pull or pull messages from topic partition so let's say one consumer group has consumers a b c and d and they're all pulling from one topic with partitions p0 p1 p2 and p3 each partition is consumed by one consumer within a group this ensures no duplication so let's say you have all the consumers reading the same data like let's say you have four lambdas that are doing the same tasks right you don't want all four to process the same message right because they're doing the same task except to ensure the duplication isn't done and how do we do this we do this uh using offset tracking I know it's a little complex guys but just make sure you understand the high level of how it works any questions clear no, no, they subscribe to a topic. A topic has eight partitions, the blue block you saw, right? You can assign like this, each of these partitions. One consumer, one partition. That's the main thing. Is that via domain? No, it assigns automatically. Or I think you can have control over it as well. But since it's the same topic, it doesn't matter really.

So, what happens is, how do they track which message was read in each partition? That's where offset tracking comes into play. Each consumer tracks the offset of the last message read. So, let's say the first lambda reads offset 0, offset 1, offset 2, done, job is done, goes back into idle, and then the next one comes, but partition 1 is free right now because the lambda is generated. So, let's say you want to continue from there. They can use offset tracking, and then you can say that this is next to read.

So, let's say one lambda goes offline because of something like failure happened, some instance failure happened, so let's say a reboot or restart or you have another fallback instance. So, you know what, where to continue that is. Yeah, so let's say the lambdas guy some no see when it falls, you have It's red or it's not red. It's in Kafka. It's in Kafka. Then consumers decide if it wants to read from start again or just wants to continue. That saves on performance, replay of events at fault, all that.

But we want to try - no, no, in Kafka it's... Let's see Kinesis vs Kafka. When would you use what?

So in Kinesis you have no servers to manage. You can scale through on-demand or shard adjustments, integrate security, monitoring IAM, but when you go to Kafka you have more control over broker storage and configuration, requires cluster management upgrades and tuning, can run on-prem in any cloud or via managed Kafka services.

So let's say you want a streaming service only in AWS that can work with all your AWS services that you already have and you want minimal operational overheads. You don't want to have control over all of these. You can just use Kinesis.

But let's say you want a cloud-agnostic or hybrid deployments, or very fine-grained tuning, or specific Kafka ecosystem tools. You already have Kafka expertise at existing Kafka clusters. You can just integrate with Kafka.

But let's say you already have Kafka but you want to integrate to AWS. What you can do is Amazon provides this managed streaming for Apache Kafka.

So, like how it made EKS for Kubernetes, but also had a lightweight version of ECS. Exactly like that. You can use this simple produces published domain events to Kafka topics. You can attach S3, Redshift, or something to Kafka restore the data lake as data lake, and then use Kafka connect for connectors as well. You can combine this with Glue and S3 for end-to-end integrations and re-token access.

So, glue is for ingestion, S3 is for data lake or data storage. Okay, this is a simple tutorial, so let's get on with that. Maybe you guys can follow with me. Any questions until here? Maybe if Kafka working is not clear, I can attach some resources at the end of the tutorial so that could be helpful. But Kafka is a huge topic. Professor told me to just give like an overview because it will be useful for you guys if you're attending interviews with this data engineering stuff or big data stuff.

Okay, let's get on with the tutorial. I'm gonna be doing it on LearnerLab because then a lab allows KDS, Kinesis Data Stream. So let me just start that. You go to Kinesis, you should see something like this. Great! Is that what you want to show? Yeah, this one.

I talked about Kinesis data streams. You have multiple things: you have Firehose, Apache Flink. You can research and see what these are for. I think it's given here. KDS is for real-time data captures and just installed data streams from hundreds of thousands of data sources. This is for loading real-time data, data lakes, data stores, and analytics tools.

So you can have like a KDS and then you can have like a Firehose that can load all this data into a database, and Apache Flink is for analyzing streaming data and gain actionable insights. The ultimate goal is you want these data that's been ingested will be shown as dashboards or could be used as training data for a model that can generalize on something, so that's where Flink comes in. Feel like Flink comes in the end so it can do some data analysis and stuff like that.

Okay, let's create a data stream. We want KDS, right? We want the initial part, so let's go here and make us see the stream there demo stream live. We want on-demand, right? We don't want to provision it and record size I think consider as default, but it's clear. This is John. Okay, so this is my producer taught keyword. What this does is when you're interacting with any AWS services in your Python code, you need a package called boto3. You specify region first and then your stream name (your KDS stream name). Then you say boto3.client with the service they're using and the region I'm using it in. Let's make an event! This is a simple JSON payload: you have "user" as a unique hex ID, then you have just random fields, timestamps and stuff. I am sending 10 of these JSONs to calling these function events, and then I'm doing adjacent.dumps so proper format. Then I'm getting a response of this is the API called Kinesis.putRecord OK!
So with this, the fields you need in this are:
- The stream name (which we have here)
- The data
- The partition key
Then you're sending that record every 0.5 seconds. Let's run this! So you have to make sure your config is in your AWS locally, so yeah, you don't have to log in every time. I think you can do it here as well. It says "Copy and paste the following into credentials," but I think it changes every time. What's not a professor gave you another account with no restrictions? Didn't have to log in, yeah? So you can see it's sending record, shard ID, and a sequence number for ordering. Let's go to our data stream and see if data has come. You can go to data viewer here, actually. It should show up in monitoring, but I think it takes time. There's usually some and let's just choose a shard trim horizon, so that means everything. You can see user ID, event timestamp, so what trim horizon is, is all the data in that shard I want to look at it, or you can pick at sequence number after sequence this, so you see how it's ordered in the partition or in the shard with the sequence number right.

And what else? What else? Okay, this is your yes, it's using that, so 123, how many shards mod 4, no gets a user ID hex format does mod of number of shard, so you have 4 different shots to go right, so it does modulus of 4.

And then, so here you have some, okay, there's nothing in here, so we have some, doesn't do it like equally, should manage the load, but it's not that much that it turns it on and then manages load equally, but otherwise, if I send like 100 right now, 1000. While creating the data stream configuration, I said as on demand, right? I don't control that, I just send my data and take care of it. Made its own number as shard, uh, port shards and then it split it up that's right, you see, I didn't send anything. That's all I sent. That's all the control I want to have. Everything else, the shard, what shard it goes to, what sequence number, how it's ordered, everything is handled by KDS. So now we have messages in our KDS. What are we going to do about it? We have to process it. Let's make a lambda. You've written lambdas before, right? Okay. So let's create a function, call it demo and view my live runtime. It doesn't matter where I'll just do 3.12 for machines execution role use I mean lab role config, that's it no networking. Create function. So to this, let's add a trigger. Then pick your stream path size let's say ten this should work. Look in SSS as a trigger now I have the lambda function let's analyze that first okay this is my Lambda function same unit photo 3 and then I made a bucket called in SSS demo bucket with Ritvik which gonna put all these data so it in that so a lambda function needs this function in the exact name so you need a lambda handler and then with an event and context so that even any event can be an SQS message or KDS record that gets but this event has to be there because that's how it knows when to trigger how lambda works is for each lambda function you can have concurrent lambda how do i say the same lambda function can run concurrently so each message triggers a new instance of lambda this is lambda so and then you can process it what else is there about Lambda okay Lambda is uh it's a serverless compute instance option so let's say in your use case you just want the function to run you don't want to have control over the OS over the whole system you don't want to activate into the instance that's when you use Lambda so you can see it's like an ID here just paste your Lambda handler function here and connect it to whatever trigger or whatever you need to read it from and then it just runs it to see if it runs properly or not you can go to monitor you can go to the CloudWatch logs and then see where it has failed and stuff like that you can also set environment variables here uh what else yeah runtime like like like you saw I picked python 3.12 but you can do node I think you can do Ruby as well not too sure but we have like some Nikon do java you can add layers so let's say you want a Lambda function to run as inference time for a model right but you need like model specific packages right like let's say um hugging face yeah so you can install hugging face locally and then export it as a lambda layer so that this does it has execution time of 15 minutes I think you can't run like big packages in lambda so we have to add it as an extra layer on top of Lambda function so that can use the libraries in that Lambda layer and then run inference here so I think you'll use layers if you're doing like something Gen-AI or AI related you'll use this layers a lot apart from that what else? You can also use a Docker image in Lambda function that's essentially what Docker is for you want to run anything in that image anywhere you want so I think there's a specific code I mean command line for that that directly does like Docker build and then pushes to Lambda with some tags so you can experiment with that uh what else what else? Oh you can also write test here so test driven development right? So you write test cases here first and then write your lambda code run the test first if it doesn't fail modify and then go out what else? Yeah I think that's about it I think you'll use a lot of lambdas in serverless but I think in cloud as well you have to use lambdas where it's relevant you can't just spin up an ec2 instance and then just use ec2 everywhere you can't do that. You have to pick the computer that makes sense in your project your assignment or whatever. So yeah, lambda is really good look at it guys. So this is what happened to me when I had to use so the package that I had in my Lambda layer it crosses 250 MB so layer also has a limit okay so you want to spin up the docker image such that everything is in that image and then you just want to run it on Lambda but that also doesn't work so sometimes if you don't want to use layer you can use Docker that's it like if you don't yeah, if you also have like a version in mixmax that has 3.1.2 locally and you have 3.8 on your lambda you can just use docker python 3.8 and build that and then deploy that ok that's it so let me know if you have any questions regarding lambdas So your lambda handler first thing I'm doing is just making a timestamp records as an empty list And I'm logging that, it received these many records in the lambda so for each record since I encoded it in my producer I'm also I have to decode it right decode it and then load it into JSON straight forward they're appending the data in the records and it is getting a record and then seeing if the user id is given or not and if record is not empty You are making the key using the timestamp then S3 data put objects in S3 I think you need a key not for sure but yeah this record is there and just putting all of them in s3 and the turning state has got 200 but Key is no no that is in ADS that's no no key is this key timestamp yeah so I could you need key yes yes correct uh hold on close it down okay so let's copy this code yes it works you can also deploy using VLA there's a lambda deploy command just doing it manually and work so many dependencies right okay uh okay we have a lambda already so let's start our producer and hope it works let's just send 20 messages or something did you mention yeah so in lambda since we added trigger the only place can get data from is that right so it gets that event which is that can actually record. Event is data record. What? Yeah, this is the AWS. AWS? Yeah. In trigger, what dimension you're saying? No, because you're the only place the lambda can get input automatically is from the KDS, right? I wanted to explicitly mention that i get from KDS. The event that comes into KDS is the name of the stream. Yeah, oh yeah, yeah, yeah. That way that you have to mention you have to mention with stream right? Yeah. For new messages only I put for all messages okay I put trim horizon and put latest such for everything that's been in the data stream gets moved to the sd then data stream will be empty data stream will still have it we're not deleting it you have to call the delete api to delete the message explicitly it's not like sqs where you see the messages because same data can be read by some other consumer right that's what we're assuming but if you're saying that one record can only be processed one time then you explicitly need to have a delete record API in the lambda so as soon as you get there You've got a sending message let's just go to monitoring it's getting triggered CloudWatch logs so you've probably talked about CloudWatch not yet okay so it's a monitoring tool attached to any service you can make explicit dashboards with it so if you look at what's time now 9:32 right this is the recent log that you have I think this is the one go there should see all the logs that your lambda is doing lambda receive one record user is 86058 save events in this bucket as 34 dot Jason sending two records. In SS demo pocket events data. The key was so long, right? That's a subdirectory level. That's how it's going so far. Let's say we would add this batch 32 of all the JSONs here. Go here, open new tab, you'll have the data. That's how it works guys. This is a simple pipe, and I just use a simple data stream from the Lambda simple state to show you how the data has been stored. But you can make a really complex application with this!

Let's say you have an IoT sensor getting weather data. You can do something with it to get a final model that can predict the weather, so you can have an end-to-end pipeline. Think what you can do with this or how you can integrate it into your final project. I'm just reading all records, that's what I said it does, but you can explicitly set a flag, like setting a flag in the record as red or not red because Kinesis. Same data. So you have to have control over your data saying flag equal to false. So let's say event when you're getting the event you check the flags first and let's say it's been read first you can delete it if it's not deleted or you can just pass and you can get the next view. So that lambda can end and the next message can trigger another lambda that's all your control then it will again that kds is controlled yes now kds just gets all the data all the data that you get is there how you deal with it is up to you what did application make go You want to know if it's been deleted default right after reading so let's just find an event let's go to cloud watch and find this what is this user 86058 say 86058 in shard oh i can't find all that oh because i'm not printing that let us look for it oh it's an hexa I have to convert it over 860578 oh yeah this is the one so it's still there let's say you can look in ss dot I think you kind of delete pretty sure it's there get records incoming data port read throughput but how do I check what it has not possible oh it gets automatically deleted after so after 24 hours it'll get deleted it just stays apparently you don't have control that's so dumb sqlc of control so sqs you can either set it as the message stays in the queue by not deleting it or you can call explicitly delete message and then delete that message so that you can only read it one time but yeah any other questions guys still trying to maintain that balance 2 0 1 3 0 3 and let's go to our cloud watch go to lambda we have a cloud watch group that's created 37 is it yes this one if I go to this let me reload it oh it's in the same group you see the time here 9 37. so it continuous in log groups and let's say if the log group is full start a new log group and under there so If we are not even deleting the previous record, if we are not marking it as the read, then how like... New data editor. Yeah. So, the trigger I set is like that. You can just set another trigger, like let's say in trigger, can I add another trigger? I am going to stream. I set the starting position as stream horizon. Which means all the data. So, and as soon as Kinesis gets triggered, checks what all data is there and then it just moves to S3 but if you pick latest you can tag you can keep track of latest messages that come in and the latest 20 messages that we sent now only those will get processed assuming that everything before that has been processed. I already sent a producer 10 messages, and I'm sending again for triggering Lambda, so it's 20 messages totaled. Right? But who knows that process or that message or process? Lambda doesn't know that. That's why it's telling the trigger as "latest" here. If you set latest now, anything that comes now will only be. Whatever is being triggered now? I just put this here. There are some changes in early use cases. That's what we started the session with. Real-time ingestion, when you have data coming every millisecond, you want something to use all of it in the process. It's like a big, big scale SQS. You want to sense the data? Yeah, yes. How do you do it? Interacting, getting all of it in one. Let's say 100,000 records, and let's say you want to process it in one go with very high latency. That you can use Glue ETL (your classic ETL is for that). It's not for real-time, but it's for extracting together. You want to wait and watch that.

So find the use case you want to. What is more appropriate? Any other questions? The class is done. You can work on. We're going to talk about CI/CD, but specifically CI/CD on AWS. I'm pretty sure you all have worked with CI/CD last term, right? In the Sharks class, where you had to implement a CI/CD pipeline as part of your course. I think you did a lab. You all made the YAML file with the build instructions, test instructions, and deploy instructions, and GitLab took care of it from start to end. But today, we're going to look at how to do that on a cloud provider. When you're talking about CI/CD on cloud, you want to make sure each component is scalable on its own, has its own security. And that's what we're going to look at today. What is CI/CD? I mean, you all know this already? Yeah, it's the continuous integration part. Where you're frequently merging code changes into the main repo and running automated tests. This includes the build and test and staging changes. And then, second thing would be continuous delivery. So, as soon as your build and test are successful, you want to make sure you always have deployable code that is ready to ship to production. And CD can also mean continuous deployment, which means automatically deploy after passing build production. CI/CD is a pipeline where new code is submitted, tested across multiple stages, and then published as production-ready code. You know what the typical stages are? You've got source, build, test, staging, and production. Source is nothing but your Git repository where you are publishing a code. And then, build would be to use Docker to somehow build a container that can run this code and make sure there's no package dependency errors or any of such errors. Then, test, you would link something like SonarCube to your repository so that tests run and make sure there's no errors. And then, you stage, and then put it to production. Each stage acts as a gate that validates a different aspect of the code. This is clear, right? I mean, wait, where is this? Okay, I'm pretty sure you guys have seen this diagram a million times, but this is the CI/CD loop. Why was CI/CD even there? I think we talked about this in the previous class. Why did we need to merge both the processes of development and operations? Why can't they just be isolated parts of a company, let's say? Because it takes a lot of resources, a lot of people. Separate teams and a lot of back-end tools. Yeah, like you said, having them as independent would not be efficient at all. You'd want to make sure you develop parts of the code and then deploy those parts of code in tandem so to make it efficient to make it more resourceful we use these processes these days. You mix development and operations, DevOps, to make sure this works. So, obviously, the first part of the loop is plan. You plan the project's requirements, features, and then build a roadmap. This is the requirement space. And then, the second thing, the first four parts of the CI/CD is just your SDLC (Software Development Life Cycle) on how your software development life cycle works. And then, the next four parts is just how your operations work. You write your code, account for the plan, and then you compile the code into runnable instances. Then, obviously, have to test it to ensure it meets quality standards. And then, after that, what you would do is, as soon as basic testing is done, you release that product! So, you pack that software for release and then deploy to production environments. You also have to operate and monitor because there's some issue or there's more users you need to accommodate for that at this step. So, as soon as monitor is done, you go to the next part, like, next function requirement of your app and then plan, code, build. The loop continues, and you give out efficient product.Points would be:

1.  Quality increases as code moves through the pipeline because more checks are applied.
2.  As code progresses through CI/CD stages, automated tests, security scans, and validations catch errors early. Each stage adds stricter verification, ensuring reliable, well-tested code reaches users.
3.  Failures in an early stage block promotion to later stages. This ensures that the errors don't propagate to the later stages and then you have no clue where it has broken down.
4.  If code does not pass initial code checks like build or tests, the pipeline stops automatically. This prevents faulty or unstable code from reaching later environments, which is staging and production. So you're protecting system reliability and user experience.
5.  Test results are sent immediately to the team and further builds/releases are stopped on failure. Let's say our test trigger fails, it sends out a notification, let's say an SQS message or an SNS topic to which the admin has subscribed to, and then he gets an immediate message that the pipeline has failed. You have to make sure something has to be done, and so that's good, so you know instantly where the pipeline has broken down or when.

This is another image showing the services provided for each stage of the CI/CD pipeline.

*   When you're talking about code, you're talking about a repository where all the code is bundled, so you have Gitlab and GitHub for that.
*   For build, you use Gradle, Maven build, Webpack.
*   Testing, there's a lot of testing heroes: JUnit, Playwright, JEST, etc.
*   Release, I think Jenkins is pretty popular for releasing and um or Extek Plan.
*   For documentation, you've got Jira and Confluence. I think you might have worked with that.
*   Deploy, we talked about Docker in the previous classes, and you can also experiment with lambda functions since they're doing serverless. Also, some people must use lambda wherever it's applicable, like your projects. If a lambda is required, used EC2; it's not going to look impressive, so make sure you know when to use lambdas.
*   Operate, so Kubernetes is something we're going to look at in the future tutorials. We're going to talk about how Kubernetes works, how we can manage the pods, the containers, look at the health of them, and everything that comes under operate.
*   Terraform in the last class. Why does Terraform come in the operate section? Because you can manage your infrastructure as you go, right? One line of execution, and then you can operate your whole resources. Then monitor, I don't know these sources, but for AWS, I think CloudWatch is pretty important to monitor, so yeah, that's part of the thing. I don't think the execution order was right compared to the last image, but that's fine, just for you guys to know what is the service equivalence that you can use if not AWS.

Okay, this thing is important! This image talks about all the stages in the CI/CD pipeline. Like I said, each stage in this whole pipeline is a logical unit in the delivery process, structured, repeatable, and easy to monitor. Only code that passes all stages is deployed to production. Any step fails, the pipeline stops automatically, ensuring that only stable, tested, and secure software is ready for production. Let's start with the first stage. You've got code push to GitHub. You have your Git repository, and static couldn't have this option completely, but your CI build stage of your CI/CD pipeline should have a trigger to your repository so that every time you push or every time you make a change, that build stage gets triggered. Right? And then we move to the other parts of it in code development and then we move to the continuous integration part that some tools like Jenkins are used for using. So what happens there is Jenkins can orchestrate your builds and tests together, so CI builds post trigger using Jenkins, and then you can perform build tests in the testing stage. You can use SonarQube or something like that. So when you're talking about storing builds, right, so whenever you're trying to build a whole package, you want to make sure the artifacts are stored somewhere, so we're going to look at AWS, and we're going to do it in S3. So when we're talking about object storage that can be configured to store all your artifacts in your build or tests, like reports of what failed where, instead of having that locally, you can just store that in your Jfrog. I don't know what that is, and then you've got this. I think before the CI performs builds post trigger, you have to set up a trigger using this other service called Spinnaker. So you're building a trigger on Spinnaker on Jenkins so that Jenkins can access your Git repository. I know it's pretty complex, and I'mCI/CD can be done with all the options stages. As soon as your artifacts are put into the storage management, you also use another trigger to make sure you can publish it. This is your CloudIn for instance. The white box that you see is, let's say, the EC2 for us, but here they use something more efficient and complex which is a Kubernetes cluster hosted on other instances. So you build it and then you use the artifacts from Jfrog to build an image. And that image you do another deployment testing using Spinnaker. So there's like an on-infra testing going on and then you have an additional CI testing going on here. And then after that is successful, you just use a deployment strategy which is usually like a YAML that describes how many pods you want to post it on or how many containers you need. And then using that inside the instance you've got a Kubernetes cluster with the production server running. Pretty complex for a pipeline, but let's see how it's done on AWS. Any questions until this point? Okay, soLearner Lab and Learner Lab gives access to very few services like we've only got two services the CodeComet and CodeDeploy okay i'll talk about later let's just look at the services first okay so now i'm going to talk about the AWS native services for CI/CD so the first thing is called AWS CodeComet don't think too much about it it's just GitHub for AWS it's just an AWS native service for hosting get repositories you create a repo to store your code no hardware to provision and scale or software to install configure and operate put a screenshot of how it looks uh to the left exactly like GitHub you have like URL which you can use to clone and then this is how it looks like uh CodeComet helps you collaborate on code with full requests branching and merging you can implement workflows that include code reviews and feedback by default and control who can make changes to specific branches same as GitHub basically and you know how git works i just put a diagram for that understanding how it can work so you've got your AWS console when you trigger create repository api you go to aws code commit and then clone project there's an additional git server so basically you can put any repository from github or gitlab into code commit also because all of the market servers are coming and then you can just push project to new repository using this pretty straightforward okay the next service is called AWS code build so what code build is uh it's an AWS native service for just chopping states so you'll have your build specifications that isn't there is another yaml file which we'll break down in a bit but we need code build to uh it's like a build specification like it gives you all the specifications that your app needs so that can be packaged into one file and then can be deployed so you don't need to provision manage and scale your own build servers you just specify the location of your source code and choose your build settings and code build will run your build scripts for compiling testing and packaging your code so i put a diagram here that shows how it works here code commit and let's say you're working with containers to apps right so you'll have doc files then the code comment has your docker files in your script file and then uh code build you can set source as core commit as soon as there's like a push or something this gets triggered and then let's use the build specification file to fill this package that can be hosted on this elastic container registry which ecs is nothing but a lightweight eks so how do i is for docker ecr is for ecs it's just like a registry of all uh contained rivers uh yeah so build in test code with automatic scaling you'll see that the symbols for all these services are similar like this was code comment that's what it looks like this code build and then okay so this is what code build looks like on the console and this is a build spec dot yaml let's talk about that first so is it visible yes okay so first in the source tab what are the first providers for aws code commit right and so i'm saying that that is a repository csv demo and then on every push into main branch i cut that off but that's what happens and then environment so build our requires own standard instance so that's where using aws comes into play let's say your build is taking like five minutes to build everything but then we can just use a bigger instance and shorten that time drastically so that the csv can run faster and uh so yeah that is an ec2 instance free environment and um what else is here will there be charged paid on their building yes the pricing is separate for code build it's not per ec2 instance but it is also for easy like let's say you have a bigger instance your price is multiplied but code build it's mostly on like uh how many triggers you've done yeah so the code you see on the right side is something called a build spec dot yaml as you can see a bit of your left image so it's like a field called build spec for the build stage where you have to paste this code and um look the classic yaml file you've got your version first and then phases i want to install python because i'm uh like python runtime and then build commands right so what building commands does is whatever files i'm getting from code commit i'm just testing them here this test is just like a placeholder so you can implement your test function and run that over here and then i'm just echoing that to field is finished i'm letting code pipeline package artifacts and then in my artifacts section i've got all my files which is the index.html aspect.yaml and script we'll look at this in a bit but this script is building and packaging all my files into one thing that can be sent to the deploy stage so after code build you've gotten the service called code deploy service that automates application deployments to a variety of compute services so you can deploy to ec2 fargate lambda and on-prem instances as well the work code deploy does is it protects your application from downtime during deployments through rolling updates and deployment help tracking it gives you centralized control of the deployments to the console or cli or sdkr apiyou can see a lot of it failed, but it gives your history, so you can backtrack and see why it failed, and then see where that leads you to. It's just an automated code deployment to make an application of that. So there's a last stage of your whole CI/CD pipeline where, using this, to post it on any instance you want. Now, what is CodePipeline? CodePipeline is like an orchestration tool that puts all of these together. This is how the Console view of CodePipeline looks like. We've got a source tab, this code commit for us, artifacts, you don't have to worry about that, you can use S3 for that. Build stage, CodeBuild, deploy, CodeDeploy, and this is the pipeline view. So let's say all your three stages are in file. This is how it looks like, and then you've got UUID which you can track it with. So let's say this failed, you can just click on this, and it will take you to the whole logs page, so you can see where it went wrong, what is the issue, and stuff. This is like a classic architecture diagram of how you would show that. You've used these services just for reference, because architecture diagram is important guys, for your projects marks are going to be cut if it's not accurate. So let's say developer puts code to GitHub, and then CodePipeline is an orchestration tool. It's part of the whole thing, but since the instructor CodePipeline is there, instruct build goes to CodePipeline first, right? But this puts code, and then takes it to the next stage, which is the build stage, right? And as you're building all the artifacts, I'm going to throw it in my S3, and CodeDeploy can use that S3, or if it's in this use case, CodeBuild artifacts directly, I think, and then gets the files, deploys it to your PC, too, and then end users can activate it. This is how it looks like. So today I'm not going to work on LearnersLab. I'm going to learn on an AWS account completely from scratch, so it's paid, but I think you guys have your template that Chris and Rufus have given you, so you can use that to test it out, if you want, and you have 50 credits for them. This is part of an architect, yeah, otherwise it can be really huge if you're going to use a lot of services, but I think the nomenclature and the symbols that are using it is pretty similar to this. Why do you see anything missing? So like regions? Yeah, you need to have that VPC, region, subnets, all of that. You have to have this is just showing you like the pipeline part of it. So let's talk about pricing. We're going to talk about CodeCommit which is a source repository, so you can have 5 active users per month, but if there's more users, you have to pay $1 per month. Active is basically any Git operation, right? So that's there, and then CodeBuild, like we talked, pre-tiered, you can have 100 build minutes per month, but this is the instance type is generally 1 small, but as it increases price increases for that, and for instance, it doubles after that as well. CodeDeploy is unlimited deployments to EC2 for the free tier, pricing is $0.02 for deployment, I think it's after your free tier pass out, it's just $0.02 for each deployment that you've figured, and then CodePipeline, so core weapon, there are two kinds of pipelines we want pipelines that are more recent, I think that takes less, yeah, that takes $0.002 per action execution minute, and v1 takes $1 per active pipeline per month. Please stand out, nothing else, remember. So let's get into the tutorial guys! Can you use your AWS accounts right now? Yes. Npm and then whatever user you have. Make sure yeah you go to security credentials and see this is what I'm talking about. So when you go to your AWS learner lab, you can just click on those AWS details and then get your private key, session key, and all that stuff right. The access keys basically, but for your AWS console that's not a learner lab environment. You have to go to IAM and then users, click on your user, or if you don't have a user, you have to make a user and then go to security credentials. Go to access keys. I mean, it will show none over here, but then you have to create an access key and then you'll get a pair.

Okay, so we're going to talk about each of these services and then provision them as well. But first, what we're going to do is let's set up Code Commit because that's the first step, right? So let me just go to Code Commit. Let's create a repository "demo app" and I don't think you need any additional configuration. Yeah, just like GitHub, and then you can use AWS manage key so that that's one thing you don't worry about setting keys and stuff, it's done. You have um Another way maybe just let's stick to the console for now. Let's keep that for now. But you can add in any other service type. You go to post pipeline now.

Today's tutorial is completely on console, but I think we have to text this to see if you can create users. Because I don't think we can get credentials without creating users.

Okay, I'll save that. If possible, follow along guys; if not, just try it by yourself. Just focus right now; it's all good.

Exactly like a GitHub, I created this repo "demo app" and let's now clone it. When you clone HTTPS, you also need this key which is a Git credentials. So if you can't make a user, you can't get these credentials and you can't really use code commit. Okay, I'll text professor today and see how to sort that out. You have to make these Git credentials in your user as well.

Then let me just go to my VSCode. Okay, so let me just make an app called "demo app". I think I have the file set already. Yeah, so first thing I'm going to be doing is a simple index.html, simple web app. So it just says "Hello from AWS version 1 deployed via CodePipeline and stuff". Let's just copy this. My bad, my bad. Let's clone it first, and then we can do that. So get clone all right! We've cloned it successfully, but if you don't have those credentials, it's going to ask you to enter a username and a password. And then you have to enter them. It's only for one time though, because it needs to attach it to your AWS console.

So let's copy this and put in this. Yes, the credentials that you get are generated per user. Yes, yes. And then we can share the key. That's true. Okay, so now what we're going to do is just add this. And then now we have the code, the script file in it. But there's one more thing we need which is called the app specs.yaml. This is what our deploy is visible. This is what the deploy part uses. So what this tells is when your EC2 instance is all set up and the deployment is done, what part of the script should be run. So it says OS is Linux, but because you're going to use an EC2 with Linux on it. And then files, we're going to say the source is whatever files are in this deployment package, and you want the destination to be in the root directory of that instance because you want to host an app.

When you talk about hooks, there are multiple hooks like you can say before install, after install, but now what we can do is application start. So while starting the application, what we want to run and we have to run this file called scripts/start.sh. So if you can see, let's first copy this app spec.yaml into the app. Okay, and then let's go to scripts. You have to make another directory called scripts, and then start.sh. So what that does is it restarts httpd, which is the Apache server on your instance. So let's copy this as well. My repository has what now scripts with start.sh, the app spec.yaml that tells the instance to use that start.sh to start the server, and index.html which is just my script file. So let's just get add comment, initial version. git push. Go back to our thing and reload this. You've got your demo app and then you've got your files in the repository.

The next thing I'm going to do is talk about IAM for some time because from now on, each service I'm using uses a specific IAM role, and I'm going to talk about what trust relationships and accesses it has.

First thing, let's talk about CodeBuild service role. This is what you have to give access to for CodeBuild service. Who accessed anything on the AWS? For now, I've given it admin access, but you don't have to. You can just give user access, and if you go to trust relationships, you should see the service is for CodeBuild. Pretty straightforward.

Let's go to the next one. We've got CodeDeploy EC2 rule, and you've got a code deployed as well. What CodeDeploy role is is basically same as CodeBuild but for CodeDeploy. For permission policies, you'll have the classic AWS CodeDeploy role, and under trust relationships, you should see a code deployed. Don't worry if you're not understanding; I'm just giving you a kind drop of how I am. Should look like. You should have a trust relationship and what permissions you can attach. Like, if you want more, you can just go to add permissions, attach policies, and then you can look for anything you want. Like, let's say you want a Lambda permission.

No, no, I created those roles, and you can attach these policies to those roles. After that, when we talk about CodeDeploy EC2 role, we're looking at the last page. You've got CodeDeploy, you've got an EC2 instance, right? For these two to communicate, you have to install something known as a CodeDeploy agent on your EC2 instance so that it can use the packages bundled by CodeDeploy and install it on the EC2 instance and run it. That's what this is! This is Amazon EC2 role for AWS CodeDeploy. It's a very specific role, and this is attached to your EC2 because you want EC2 to access the agent functionality.

And I think the last thing would be this CodePipeline service role. CodePipeline is an orchestration tool, right? It needs access to all these services together. That's why you have so many permission policies. You've got S3 full access for the artifacts, CodeBuild admin access, CodeCommit full access, CodeDeploy developer access (I mean, deployer access), and "pipeline" full access. And all of these are attached to which service? CodePipeline! That's it! It's pretty simple, guys. So, you only need these four roles to get the CI/CD running.

What are we done with? We've set up CodeCommit! Let's do the EC2 instance next. I'm doing the first stage and the last stage first, and then we'll do the middle stages later. Easy too!

So, I've talked about how to launch instances with Terraform last class. Now let's do it the classic console bit! You go to launch instance, let's say "demo app server". I'm just using Amazon Linux and instance type is t3.micro. PTR not required, right? For security, make sure you have PTR. You don't need it, but this is important. Security group, right? You want to make sure you can access it into the instance and HTTP requests can go through. So, I'm just going to enable allow HTTP traffic anywhere, so it's publicly available. Storage, just leave that go. To advanced details, and we have to attach that role, right? So that EC2 can use the deploy part. Look for where it is? Yeah, IAM instance profile. So, you go to select, and then you see that it will pop up automatically, or deploy EC2 role. Just click on that, and okay!

The last part, important part, is user data. What all do you want to install on the instance so that the app can run? I have a user data file which will break down right now looks like a lot, but don't worry, guys! The first thing is update system packages, so I'm just setting this flag called "set ease that exists on error", so sudo yum update yet. Then you want to install Apache server so you can post your app, so I'm just doing sudo yum install httpd. Then I'm starting it and enabling it.

So, the next thing I need is Ruby. Why do I need Ruby? Because the CodeDeploy agent that we're going to install uses Ruby, so you need Ruby to be bundled with it. So, let's install Ruby first, and then um, then let's install. So, you see this w get CodeDeploy, this is the agent install on your instance, and then you're giving it permissions to execute. That's nothing, okay!

And then we're going to start the agent, enable the agent, and then you can check the status of both httpd and CodeDeploy agent using this command. Okay, so I'm just going to copy this. Use the data. What is user data? We talked about this in Terraform, runs automatically as soon as your system instance boots, this script runs for it. 和上面的transtrcipt，和图片一起整理，给我个细节的整理，我觉得没有问题才给我文件。Yes, our package is given, not dependencies. Let's just launch instance. Wait for it to be done, then you can go to instances to view it. See, it says initializing, so yeah, let's wait for that to be done and let's go to the next part.

So, set up code commit. What is the next stage after code commit? Let's just go to code build.

Yes, everything I am doing on console can be done with Terraform. I'm just doing this so you can see what each thing I'm doing in a better way. So, I'm doing this otherwise I suggest using Terraform itself.

So, let's go to create project. Let's create demo app build okay, additional configuration, do everything. Okay, now we're done! Source this is the important part, so what is our source? You can see all the sources: you can do GitHub, Bitbucket, GitLab, S3 as well. So you can just bundle all your code, push it to object storage, and then it will pick up from object storage. It's not efficient, guys, don't use that.

So, code commit repository, demo app, and then you can set a trigger here. So you want branch main, right? See, it already shows what it needs to build for its initial version. This is additional configuration, get clone depth. You can explore that by yourself. All of these, let's say it at default EC2s compute run. So when you come to Service Roll, this is where you go to existing service role and click on the Code Build Service Roll I talked about. This. Right. Which one? Yeah, I just showed you. No no no, everything you have to create, those four roles. Yes. If you want I can maybe share like a document with all the roles and all the axes that it has so use that to. There's just four roles guys. After this class, I'm going to attach everything you need to do it yourself. Just follow through for now. So yeah, source is done and one minute is done. What is the next thing? The build spec file right? So you can either insert build commands or use a build spec file. Let me just insert it so when I was working on this demo this stage is the stage where I faced a lot of errors not because of the code not because of the environment but because of how it's being formatted so even if one space is off or it's using tabs and substrates spaces it's not gonna work so make sure this warning symbol you see is completely zero okay let's go to our code build spec.yaml copy this put it over here so zero warnings it should work. Batch configuration you don't need that. Artifacts so you want to store your artifacts somewhere right? So I'm going to use Amazon S3.My bucket, and right now there's no artifacts, but as build is done, you can see the artifacts. Pocket name, artifacts, packaging, none, logs, nothing that's important. The only important part is attaching your role build spec file and setting your source. That's it, that's all you have to worry about in this stage. So let's just create this code, build is done, what's next? Code, commit, code, build, testing is optional, but we can set that in the pipeline now. After testing, apply. So let's go to code, deploy. Okay, what we're going to do is, this is how CodePal looks like. First thing you have to do is create an application. Right, so let's just say "demo app" and compute platform. You see two for us, that's it. You have to create an application first, and then when the application is done, you create a deployment group. This is what handles what is being shifted to where and stuff like that for that application. So let's just say "demo app dg" department group and enter a service role. Remember that code deploy rule I talked about, you enter that here. And group to the EC2 instance you made earlier. Right, so what you're going to do is key set, the name of the instance. Basically, so which one is this? Demo app server. Right, so this environment configuration is going to make sure whatever is deployed, it's deployed on that instance, the right instance. Let's run what is this? Okay, that's just default. Leave that default deployment settings. I'm just doing one at a time. Load balancer is set by default, but disable that. We're not working with third balances right now. So, yeah, the deployment group looks fine. Let's just create that.

Okay, so we've made a demo app deployment group in the demo app for our code deploy. Now, what is after code deploy? Nothing, like it just goes to instance, but let's create a pipeline so that all of these are currently manually. You have to trigger them manually, like deploying has no source from build. Right, so how will deploy be configured? That's where code pipeline comes into place. It's an orchestration tool making sure that e-stage, yes, yes, so let's make a pipeline so it looks like this. Don't go to any of these default options. Just go to "Build custom pipeline". If you're in deployment, you only see these three steps: right, creation option, source, and template. And you go to "Build custom pipeline". You can add your build stage, your test stage, your deploy stage, your source state, all of that.

So let's work with that now. Enter the pipeline name "Demo app pipeline". All of this is default, but service role, remember that one role we gave so many permissions to? That's what we're going to use. Code pipeline service role. Go to advanced settings, let's see if we're missing something. Okay, now time source, what is that source for this whole pipeline? The initial point of entry. Yes, so code commit is available. Deposit read name is "Demo app", branch "main". All of these are default, just leave it at that. Build, this is a build stage in code pipeline, so if you don't want to use code build, you can just use this build stage. If you want, but since you want to have control of the build stage, you picking what instance you want or what to be done and everything, you can just go to other build providers: CodeBuild, ECR, Jenkins. You can add all of these, so we'll just add the code build part. Project name, pick the code build project. Yeah, and then all of these is default, I think. Yes, I'll do default.

Next, test. This optional. Guys, I don't think AWS has a test service by on its own. I mean, I think you can implement test in code build itself, or you have something called Device Form. I'm not sure what that is, but you can add Jenkins and stuff like that. So, let's just skip it for now because we don't have a test age. Deploy, so talking about deploy, we have a code deployed, right? And our application name is "Demo app". Deployment group, so it asks for the deployment group. For the same app, you can have different deployment groups to different instances, so you can pick where should get deployed to and stuff like that. You can do next. Just review whatever you did, and then create pipeline. Right, so as soon as created, it starts pulling from your code commit to see how it is. Just to show you, so if you are in your code pipeline, you can get acts. I mean, you can just click on all these services instead of searching for them, so you can go to your code build called "Deploy everything separately", so we can see our code comment was successful. Let's move to the next stage, which is the build stage. Maybe I can show you. I just don't think it shows anything in this, but in build, it'll show. Let's just go back to that, so if you click on this "UU" ID, I think it should give you okay, I think in progress it won't, but as if it fails to succeed, you can see the logs. What else? Is our EC2 setup ready? Let me just check that it's ready. Is there instance? Okay Let's go back to this So build ran successfully too Let's just check that out Yeah, so you can see the logs of the build So yeah, put that echo command right, installing Python and then it's testing the index.html, all of this Build state succeeded Artifacts are not succeeded, let's check if the artifacts are present I think Made its own buc- oh because you have pipeline it I think it has its own artifacts. Where is that? Ah So it over wrote so in build I attached my bucket which is the demo app for it And because I put that in pipeline pipeline overrode that with its own bucket got pipeline us east one And then if you go to demo app pipeline You should have your artifacts Here This is just like a- I don't think we can view it Can we? We can just download it Yeah yeah yeah Think that's- I think I enabled a box that said like make your own bucket or something like that So that's why everything is in this and not in the other bucket Okay let's go back to our Pipeline Okay it's worked So deploy also worked So let's access the address Is this? Yeah That's the right one right HTTPS is not enabled HTTP should work okay that's it Hello from MWLS version 1 So let's make a change and then push that and let's see how that works so I just added these two lines it says this version 2 uh let's just do that Let's see if the pipeline gets triggered by itself on push where is that Okay it's in progress so it is pretty quick just now and then build is going on right now and then deploy will start again They can see here what is buffering and stuff so this is CICD AWS guys The reason I picked an external AWS completely instead of using LearnerLab is because none of these are there in LearnerLab code build isn't there You only got CodeDeploy you can't use CodePython as well So all you can do is CodeDeploy at GitHub to CodeDeploy and CodeDeploy to EC2 that's it There's you can't use any of these services So I'm like there's no point of doing CICD in AWS if you can't see all the services So that's why I've made this But since you have the template now you should all be able to do this I'm going to share each and every file I've used for this demo so don't worry about that And yeah any questions guys stage just have linked no not code deployed code pipeline yes like an orchestration tool it's like something you can control it has access to all the services that it's using now that is built for that's what's running build test and everything of course GitHub actions or GitLab it's more convenient because all you have to do is specify one file and then it takes care of everything else but if you want control over each part and you want to scale each part if there's more users there's more builds running or you want the build time to be less and you want more settings that you have control of this is way better and it's completely AWS native and if you don't want to use CodeCommit, giving us GitHub as well as source so yeah work with that and what else um I can show that as well there should be some similar I think Kubernetes tutorial. We will work with GCP because I think after looking at Kubernetes, not EKS (EKS is basically the AWS version of Kubernetes). Let's see if we can do that as well. I think you guys get 50 credits for GCP as well if you are a student, use a student mail, you can get 50 credits, so check that out as well. Any questions guys online? week 6 lecture 1.如果是讲师的讲课讲总结 ,如果是讲师的提问回答。Networking and content delivery. 2 I'm very surprised we only have this many students. Previously it was about 70 to 80. In the fall, it's 1.9.

OK, looks like we are going to have another storm on Tuesday evening. Let's finish networking and content delivery today.

And before that, I just want to remind you that one is due on Wednesday. And change your username from email to real name if you see some students will get zero definitely and for sure there are some students who got zero for the first or even the second half because they again and again and again don't pay attention to anything! They don't come to the lectures, they don't look at emails, they don't look at the price page, they don't look at the teams, so they don't know what's happening.

OK, in the last lecture, we already finished these three sections.

OK, we will finish four, five, six, these three sections today, but we will focus more on security and compromise security is very very important. So today's major content is about security, VPC security. Let me tell you before we start this, I'm doing some agility AI projects. People's concern about creating AI projects is security because we are going to access the models, we are going to reach the internet and send our prompt to the internet, and then to the models. The models are hosted; we don't know where they are, so it's kind of a black box. We don't know what's going on after we send our prompt. That's the major concern for a lot of not companies, for department, government departments.

Yesterday, the day before yesterday, I was meeting with my previous student. I learned a lot from my previous student because they work in a lot of companies and they are after working for two to three years and they are already making money. In their company is a startup. They don't care at all the security. We just access the levels through that. We just want to make our things work and we just want to make money. And that's very typical situation in companies. But another student who is working in the government right now they also they think that they are agents they give out their bot to serve you know, as a lot of people you can ask them questions on the website. So there, for them they will never allow their prompter to go through the public internet to the left models. And it's good when we use models, but there are two ways. One way is that you access the model, you download the model, you use the model locally on a machine. Right? That's the most secure. Second way is that you use those models that is hosted on a certain cloud provider's platform. Like AWS RTCB they host them to models like OpenAI or whatever those popular models in their data centers. When you access them you are on AWS's own network you don't go to the public internet. That's much much more secure and another thing is that before you access the leverage models you must have an application logic that is running on some server. How about that part? That part is very important. Right? Your application logic or where you issue those prompts and your knowledge base. Where are they? If you want to keep that safe they are in VPC or people would say we want them to be in a private environment but they are on the cloud as VPC. On-premises it's your own data center but most companies are doing this on the cloud. That's why we are learning VPC security. Okay, VPC security contains two levels.
1. The first level
2. The next level is the instance level
The instance level means that, you know, our EC2 instances are in some subnets of some VPCs, right? So on these instances we can implement security groups to make the instance-- instances secure, okay? We're gonna see another level which is a network level after we finish this one. Okay, now let's look at the security groups and the concepts. Security groups have rules that control inbound and outbound instance traffic.  Okay. So we define rules for your instances in security groups, and when we define network rules or firewalls, the security groups deny all inbound traffic, which means any inbound traffic cannot go into your instances. But we allow all outbound traffic, so come on, get some! Say you're now okay for outbound. We allow all the traffic because it's from your instance to the outside, right? So we allow them. That's the default.

I said in the last lecture when we define while tables, we always customize our tables. For security groups, we always customize our security groups.

Okay, so security groups are stateful! This is very important. This often occurs in exams like the AWS Certified Associate-Foundation exam, etc. So stay from these if you allow outbound traffic from your instance to a certain IP range or whatever that there is a destination. You allow your instance to access those machines in that IP ranges. The response from those machines or from those IP ranges to your instance you don't have to define that because the state of your traffic from your source to the outside is already recorded and tracked, so the response can come back without a problem.

So you don't need to define a rule from the outside to the inside, but if you want to issue a new traffic from the outside to the inside that doesn't work because you don't have that rule right? So you have to be sure that the rule you make the response come back is only for that task. You need that response from the destination. That's why it's called stateful!

Okay, um here is the default. We allow inbound traffic from network interface assigned to the same. This is not right. Inbound is denied. Even is denied. This is not before this one. Before we can go to anywhere. Okay, so for inbound, it's all denied, and for inbound and outbound traffic, we can only specify allow, but not deny. You only specify allow; you don't specify deny by default; it's denied.

Okay, so now, all rules are evaluated before the decision to allow traffic. What does it mean? So you may have a lot of interest in this rule in this rule set. Say for inbound, when the rules take effect, which one will take effect? So we are going to evaluate all the rules. There's no sequence. It doesn't mean which one comes earlier, which one will take effect. It's not that there's no sequence. We take all the rules together, we evaluate that all together. If they are allowed, they are allowed. So if they are not allowed, explicitly allowed in these rules, they are denied.

So if two rules contradict, which was the most restricted one on the call? You remember this principle when there are contradictions or conflicts between rules or security, whatever. Because we have different things with security, like IAM policies, etc., and we'll learn that in the future. Whenever those rules or policies have conflicts in them, we always choose the most restrictive one as the final policy for the rule.

Here is the same thing. We evaluate them at home. For outbound, you see, we can use the port range, this and a port is this. The destination, in most cases, we like to say we like to use like the IP range to specify where I can reach. That's the very common one. But here, we can use the ID of the security group of your Microsoft SQL server database servers. What does this mean? So we allow our EC2 to access a group of database servers. These servers share the same security group ID. So you create a security group; every security group has an ID. You attach that security group to a group of database servers. It's like tagging, right? Just like you add tags. In cloud, we do have tags, but this is not tax, but very similar to tags. We're going to learn tax in the future, which is very powerful.

So if you have a group of database servers serving your application servers, they serve the same purpose, so they should have the same security rules. Right? So if you use their security group ID, that's exactly for that group of database servers. If you specify IP ranges, it may not be easy, right? The IP is in the same subnet. You have to pick which one. This is another way to use Visit By Destination when you access resources. The most inner layer security, which is instances. Now we go one layer out. When we go one layer out, so we have two instances over here. One layer out is the subnet. So for each subnet, there is a net hole. We call this network ACL. We often write this as network ACL. Network access control list. For each subnet there is a default echo an echo rules a set of rules attached to them that we need to customize them. Let's see what it looks like. And an echo has separate inbound and outbound rules this is the same as a security groups and they allow They, you can allow or deny. In security group, you only allow. By default is denied. But here, you can allow or deny. And default NACO rules allow all inbound and outbound. That means coming out of your subnet and coming into your subnet is all allowed. Okay? By default it's all allowed because by default- your EC2 instances are not going to be able to access access from the outside Your EC2 can access backboard access the outside Okay? So that's why we our systems are still secure However we definitely want to be this report allows for inbound and outbound sitting there without any changes we definitely need to change it

One question: so what would happen if there are, like, contradicting rules and one is saying that allow and another saying that it's like denied? Like we have in this example

So let me ask you one

Another very important thing is that it's stateless. Stateless means if you define a outbound rule you can go across your network and then access outside but the response cannot come back because it's stateless. We won't track the traffic. So if you wanna get the response back you need to define another rule for inbound. Get it? Because it's stateless. So stateless and stateful we are going to meet this again in the future in a different scenario. But that's a very important scenario.

Did you, when you design your applications, did you have to do with states? A major feature we all learned in serverless, a major feature of serverless is, is it stateless or stately? Stateless. The previous one has nothing to do with the next one because they don't share data. But in a lot of cases they do have to access some data. In that case, we want to make stateless application. We need to, we need to store the states of stateless application, of stateless computing like system, like Lambda functions. We state the states in a, like when you do online shopping, etc. Your states is always Four in, uh, multiple degrees. Why? We'll learn that in 5411 why we use a no SQL database. Um, so here the, uh, NACO is status means that you have to define both directions of traffic. Now let's look at an example where do get-get your custom setting. Uh, so customer-- NACO ACLs deny all inbound and outbound traffic until you add rules. Hm. Interesting. And you can specify both allow and deny rules, and rules are evaluated in number order starting with the lowest number. See? We have these order numbers: Rule order number one, and what one is this kind of numbers. It can be what anyone wants, any to this whole after you add rules, but only divided with them. We start from the lowest number, so in this case, this is a default inbound and outbound rules for inbound, we allow everything to exit. Success! So we allow this, and then we reach a deny. Deny is with a rule number star that means it's at the very bottom. It's bigger than any other rules, so this rule number is the biggest one. That means this entry is going to be evaluated at the very end. How do they work together? For all the allows, we allow them; it's quite simple. So deny here means that we are going to deny all the rules that are not explicitly allowed previously. You get it? Okay, so now everything is allowed, we don't deny anything. That's why this inbound and outbound rules, these two entries actually means we allow everything for default for inbound and outbound. Can you repeat the last point please? Deny, the last entry is deny, it means that it's going to deny the rules that are not allowed previously. But in these two default rules, we already allowed everything, so deny is nothing. You get it? That's why the default one is we allowed everything, every traffic, all the traffic inbound and outbound. Okay? So when we, I forgot one thing! I need to ask the question. On this security group, for this table in bar, you see this one means that we can 80 and 43 means that we can access our HTTP and HTTPS from anywhere. It represents, you can already imagine this instance should be a public-facing instance, right? Because we need a HTTP and HTTPS access.

The third entry, I want to ask you, we allow inbound access to port 22. Port 22 is for which protocol? SSH? SSH, perfect from your network's public IPv4 address range. Usually, if you have a public-facing server for users to access HTTP via HTTP or HTTPS, who would you allow to access 22, the port 22? If it's an EC2 instance, so it would be like someone who is deploying the application or developer who is using it for debugging. Yeah, perfect! Who manages that server? Right, developers or system admins. Right, yeah! So you can see from these ports, you can understand on this machine, although it's public-facing, it's a web server. People are using it. I still need to allow developers or my system admins to access it for debugging, right, updating, etc. Do their maintenance work. Perfect!

Okay, now let's continue to look at the NOS. Look at this Yin Bang rules. We allow HTTP/PS. You see, we removed that 100, and everything right, but in one, we allow HTTP/PS for this port from anywhere. We allow SSH from this IP range, 256 IP addresses, and then we deny everything. So, these three rules mean that we only allow these two ports to be opened to the public, but for this one, even for the second one, we even restricted the IP ranges. Right, so the deny will deny all other rules that you didn't allow before. Okay, this one you can understand in the same way.

Okay, for the outbound traffic. Now let's look at the Senex concept. If you remove, if you only give the start rule, only give this time, then it denies everything. So, does it become a security group? You can say its effect is the same as a security group, but this one applies to segments, not just instances, at a separate level. Okay, that's a very good question.

Okay, now let's see Senex Concert 120, 130, identical protocols. Both are. Why is it a lot? Why are you taking that? What do you think? We haven't learned the IAM policy yet. If I have taught the IAM policies, most people will say it's a deny. Because the IAM policies is like this: as long as there is an explicit deny, it is a deny, no matter how many allows we have. That IAM policy is a very important topic. Here with NECO, it's very different. The way it is evaluated is very different. We evaluate from the smaller numbers. When we reach a rule that— when we reach the same rules as these two, as long as one already takes effect, the next one won't be evaluated. Get it? So that all depends on which one is evaluated first. So 120 is evaluated first, 130 won't be evaluated, 120 will take effect. If we use the IAM policy rules, it's all different. This deny will take effect even though these allows already take effect. So if we take the last line as first, this line first doesn't matter. It's the numbers; it's not a position. This is the largest number, this is the last one. Yeah? Security groups and NACOs. Security groups is at the instance level and the NACO is at the subnet level. Support rules we allow rules only but for NACO we can allow and deny. Security groups is stateful that why that's why you need to define one direction of the traffic the response is automatically tracked. And when NACOs it's stateless you have to define both ways. In order is all rules of security groups are evaluated as a whole but when NACO evaluated in a general order to allow traffic from low to high so in our future lectures we often say security groups as S-G and and natural ACLs as S-A-Z-L okay? In future we often just say S-G, you should understand it's a security group or I say NACO it's a network access control list. Okay any more questions? Okay we have a assignment, not assignment, activity let's go through it together but we don't do it today. We we go through it, you think about it, I give you some hint so you can design it back up. You have a small business with a website that is hosted on EC2. You have customer data that is stored on a backend database that you want to keep private so the keyword here is private and you have a website that already implies there should be a public subnet right and you want to use BPC to set up a BPC that meets the following requirements: your web server and database server must be in separate subnets so clear what is in public what is in private right and your the first address of your network must be this one and each subnet must have 256 total IPs this one is slash 24 okay and you can define the two uh subnets with IP ranges as 24. Your customers must always be able to access your web server that means the SG and NECO should be always allowed right for any traffic through your EC2 instances of the web server but only for ATN uh 443 groups uh yeah if it's a um for HTTP yeah it's only that port perfect. And your database server must be able to access the internet oh your database must have to access internet to make patch updates do you remember what we would do Perfect yeah that gateway is in which subnet? Public subnet And your architecture must be highly available and use at least one custom firewall layer. Yeah, it's good. 101 is perfect. And at least one custom firewall layer, just like a static stack, 443 is one firewall layer, right? We only open that port to our users. And we can also set up a natural layer firewall. Perfect, you see? You can design, this is not hard at all. However this happens very often in the new projects. Because this can keep your staff safe already. In this section what we learned, we built security into your VPC architecture. Isolate subnets if possible, choose the appropriate PICWI device for VPN connection for your needs. Use firewalls. Security groups and enables are firewall options that you can use to secure your VPC. Route 53 is a DNS service offered by AWS, don't know why it's 53? They always like to use those number. Why this is 53? 53 is the port number for DNS service on Linux. We won't go through much of this stuff because when you do it you can read a lot of instructions by itself and follow them one-by-one. I only give you some general information. It's highly available and available DNS web service and this is the only one service that is, they guarantee 100 percent availability. When cloud providers mention, availability on their services is always like 11 nines to 9 nines, 99 dot 99999. So before the dot and after the dot how many nines together is people how people evaluate the availability and reliability. So this is the only service we claim it's 100 percent available. Is it used to route End users to internet applications by translating DNS names to IP address. Uh, it's fully combined with IPv4 and IPv6. Connect user requests to infrastructure running AWS and also outside of AWS is used to check the health of your resources. It can check the resource-- say if you put, uh, a route fifty-three again as a name in front of your... Attached to your public-facing web server. Uh, the health of the server if you have a group of servers the health will be checked by route fifty-three. Features traffic flow and enables you to register domain names. You can register a domain name very very easily and very cheaply in a home-binding car. You guys can try this open an AWS account if you want you have some idea about your future say business or website you can you can pay very little money to get your own DNS name even though we don't use it right now but in the future you may use it because in most cases is one dollar a month you buy a DNS name is very very cheap. So a lot of our students, not a lot okay some of our students because I saw this before they try to show, you know you need to find out, find a job right they try to show their profile. You wanna show your profile you go on show your programs and your code, your the links to your git, etc and a link to your login. A very economical way to do this is that we haven't learned S3 yet. When we learn S3 we will see it's very very simple you create a static website using S3. You just put HTML file or CSS file etc into a bucket and then it works. The HTML file works. How it works is that you buy the DNS name and you attach that DNS name to your static website. Very simple to associate that and then you have your static website it's not dynamic okay it doesn't support JavaScript but you have a static website showing all the facts about yourself it's way better than a resume so you only pay one dollar a month to have this beautiful website. You can make it very beautiful and in the future when you wanna share your program profile, we can just send you a link. The link is your own DNS website. Okay? You can do this because when you use S3 to store those, uh, HTML files, you are way below the free tier requirement actually. You-you are charged nothing for the storage. You are only charged by the DNS name. Okay. Um... That's our website. We specify the DNS name or URL. And we are going to go through DNS resolvers. The first stop your data is going to go through is your ISP's DNS servers. ISP is your Internet service. Okay. Right here we can use Route 53 as the DNS server. Then after you use Route 53 say if you put your Route 53 in front of your web servers, your web servers could be distributed servers in different locations. So you can use all different kind of ways or policies or strategies to direct the traffic from your users to your servers. You see simple routing, one-lobbing routing, latency routing, geo location and geo proximity routing, full-loading routing, multi-valuing and inter-logging. All different routing policies depending on your use case that if you are users, a lot of them are in Europe, you may choose geo-property routing. If they are you put the server over there so the routing policy will be this one to make it that the goal is to make the latency better, the speed better. Okay? So I won't explain Explain these. If you have interest, you can watch the video in that, uh, in module five. There is a section about this. Okay? This is not the major point of this chapter. Now I want to explain the AWS global infrastructure. We should have introduced this early, earlier than today, but it's not late at all. Um, we have this kind of infrastructure. Across the world that each more there is more over there. Oh, Sorry. My service is not very complete. No problem. Let me get that one those guys I like small classes for big classes is too hard to do this Yeah, Over there Previously I bring students like Diwadi's I bring them samosas I like samosa very much. But samosas in a farmer's market is too expensive. Oh, thanks. Thanks. $5. I'll grab two. Thanks. I know it's about $0.30. Less than that. Oh. OK. Grab two. But in India, there's something like $0.50. OK. Yeah. OK. OK, so we have, from, uh, Big areas, the biggest concept about the cloud providers ranges is regions, ADs, local government, we didn't introduce local government, and data centers, and the last one, POPs. POPs is a major topic, one of the major topics for today. Today's topic, the most important one, is security. The second one is POPs. You may think all the security is so simple right? It's just an SG and an AACO Not that simple because when your data is in the SG or if it be on the EC2 instances do you need to encrypt your data? Do you need to validate your data? When your data is—say if your data is sent to a patient line— and it is running on EC2 instances you're going to send your prompt to the other line no matter where it is it could be on the Internet it could be in the premises of AWS when you send the request there will be a prompt. The prompt needs to be validated. It will be checked. You need to mask something in that prompt. So there are a lot of things to do. When we say security we need to apply security measures every single layer. The layer can be very many not just SG and AACO Pops is a very important concept we have been learning today Now let's see quickly how we can do this. We used to have a very rich student who told me in her country, they don't have a region, AWS doesn't have a region in her country. So the student was asking me if my family contributed a region, will AWS construct a region for us? That's it. Your family has a city, basically, as big as a city. You have that much land. She said no it's not my land, it's my father's land. Okay so it's a geographical area each region consists of 3 or more regions On AWS's original slide they said 2 that is not right so I modified it to 3 Communication between regions uses AWS Backbone Next Network infrastructure, and you enable and control data replication across the regions. So that's why I-I told you before when your data is uploaded, all your resources is provisioned is always within one region because as long as you replicate your data across regions there's a cost. So cloud providers would not do that by default. They cannot represent- you- to charge you by default right? It always in one region Then only when you configure the data replication or database distribution etc across regions you can do it manually or automatically using iAZ whatever but it has to be the decision from you and at that time you need to understand that there is a cost Okay in AZs we have- Data Center See three or more You see it says at least two It's actually more than three. It's designed for fault isolation It's interconnected with other AZs in a region using high speed private links. For certain services, you can choose your availability zones, and AWS recommends replicating across AZs. They can say they recommend you replicate your data across regions. That's what I told you before. Two AZs in one region is already a very good solution, balancing the availability, resiliency, and cost.

Local zones I have never used, but the concept is like this. In some big cities like Los Angeles, they don't have a region, but the city really wants the cloud to be settled over there. They invite AWS to construct a region in Los Angeles by invitation. So they also have all the services. It's just very close to them, so for the people in Los Angeles, they have very low latency for accessing the web cloud services. That's called local zone. This is like an extension of the region around it, but it could be farther than this local zone. To the people who are living here, out there, I believe like um Indy government invited those cloud providers to construct their regions there. Right? I'm not sure if there will be local zones. Most of them, I believe, will be regular regions. There could be some local zones. How many regions of AWS in India do you know? Where is Hyderabad? Toom. Toom. Toom. Okay. Close to which area? Is it called Indian West or Indian Central? It's in the South. In South and East? Southwest. One is in the west, one in south. One is south, one is west Interesting yeah I think yeah later I'm going to show you their their expansion plan about the regions okay the role of the data centers data centers are where the data resides and data processing occurs a data center typically has tens of thousands of servers all data centers are online and serving customers and custom network equipment includes the following like the HOMIA whatever okay so now let's look at POPS what does pop represent stand for yeah point of presence perfect um in the context of AWS POPS represent edge location and regional edge cache we just that we have so many regions and AZs and data centers but we have way more bigger number of POPS compared to data centers compared to AZs and regions why simply for latency okay say if I am a youtuber I want to well my video will be accessed or viewed by if i speak Spanish then i know my audience are in South Africa no South America also very Africa speaks French right South America a lot of South American countries they speak Spanish and also Spain right so I will want I live in Canada and I I know they are my original server say if i upload it to S3 is in Canada central so if my audience will stream my my video from Canada central especially for Spain Spanish users right in Europe is too far away I want them to have a better performance experience watching that video right so in that case you can copy your videos from your origin server which is in Canada central to the POPS point of presence close to or just in South America and in Spain there are a lot of these kind of locations I will show you in a second okay so AWS's algorithm is going to calculate where you are right now physically and where is the closest POPS that has that video for you get it so they have an algorithm to optimize the searching paths and the streaming paths of that video but you copy the video to that pop location. So th- those pop locations we call them edge location. Okay? They are at the edge. Okay? They're called edge location. So another concept is regional edge cache. We just said we have a lot of edge locations. Okay? These are all edge locations. So sometimes the videos or the files in those edge locations again not that popular they are not that frequently accessed when we we have regional edge cache so here is one here is one here is one we have less number of regional edge cache than edge locations but regional edge cache is much bigger the size is much bigger so when our data is not that frequently accessed in the edge locations we copy them back to the regional edge cache because the regional edge cache is still closer to your audience than your original servers got it? Frequently accessed data, if the data is becoming more and more frequently accessed, copy that to the application again to serve them.

OK, if you do know that when you access some resources or some az or some regions, sometimes you do notice that AWS can use those actual locations even at location has natural connections to their regions and entities by using their own network. AWS uses those networks connecting those active locations to route your traffic to make your traffic very quick.

That's a very good way because they have the infrastructure they can make use not only for data hacking they can use it for network routing to save time. The latency is greatly increased using their az locations.

OK, now let's look at some numbers. Is that network routing the only difference between this and Content Delivery Network? Between this and Content Delivery Network. Content Delivery. Yes. Now Content Delivery Network is the same thing. CDN is right - the concept is right. The concept would just be - We'll see that in a second. Okay. We have a section of CDN. My question is that if the servers update, then how the edge locations will update themselves? Send you later. Your brain is fast; it's always one step further than our slides. We have a slide for that. But that's a very good question, that means you are thinking, and there's very good thoughts about - because that's really what we're looking for here. Okay, so we have 39 regions globally now. You know those numbers I cross? Are the numbers 38? 8 months before, because every 4 months I check it once. Because every 4 months I use this slide again, so you can see the changes.

For availability zones, it's 114 to 120, and now it's 123. For CloudFront pops, okay, CloudFront is the AWS service name of POPs is called CloudFront or ad location. We have over 750 across the world, and there are 15 regional ad caches which has to learn the differences between them. Local zones we have 43, and wavelength zones we have 33. What is wavelength zones? It's ultra low latency application. What does it mean? Wavelength zones are the zones that's constructed by AWS to work with the local ISP that align with Rogers. Your data is transferred like using that 5G okay, it's not using our internet or the platform of AWS is using 5G to transfer the data so it's super low latency. It's for some very critical or some applications that require very good performance they may use wavelength zones. These 33 wavelength zones most of them are in the United States, only four or five are in other countries. I remember Canada doesn't have one, UK may have one. I don't remember exactly which countries, but most of them are in United States and 255 countries and the territories and 135 direct connection locations.

The plan for now is that it has 138 AZs and 39 regions. We've announced a plan for 7 more AZs and 2 more regions in Saudi Arabia and Chile, I believe. In about half a year, India's plan will be here in their official website. I believe they will construct more regions in India.

Now let's look at CloudFront, which is the CDN or Azure location. Okay, when we mention Azure location, it's CloudFront service. When we mentioned our application is about the CDN, what's the full name of CDN? So when we say we are going to develop a content delivery network on AWS you have to use CloudFront. They are all connected. So the major purpose of using CDN is that we want to greatly reduce the latency between users and the origin servers because there could be this many routers and hops right now Let's look at some facts about CDN. It is a globally distributed system of caching servers we only learned 5411 caching systems caching is very important as long as you will store data you should have a solution for caching it's for relieving the load on the server right? Loading? No I mean for caching for relieve the load the big loads in the server. The caching is for relieves the load on the server and also increases the latency. Usually caching systems are very fast there is an in-memory databases yeah so your databases usually is very big but if you can have very big memory you load your data database data into memory you can see how good the performance of the databases right that's why we have an in-memory databases that's kind of caching actually so as long as you store your data large amount of data there should be a solution to cache the data CDN is kind of caching of your data because it's closer to your users and the data is from your origin servers of course it's kind of a cache but it's not a super fast caching compared to in-memory caching. The benefit of CDN is that it's close to data and it scatters all over the world right that's its benefits. Caches copies of commonly requested files static content delivers a local copy of the requested content from a nearby cache edge or point of presence accelerates delivery of dynamic content and improves application performance at scale all the benefits point to latency right and or speed. So here is some characteristics of CloudFront: Fast, Global and secure CDN service, Global network of edge locations and regional edge caches, Self-service model and pay-as-you-go pricing Here is again the explanation of Edge locations and regional edge cache I don't need to explain more. Let me just explain this again now let's look at the benefits. Is already we learn about fast and global security at patch highly programmable this is very important like a lot of services on AWS the benefits of them are APIs right like S3 I told you simple but powerful because we provide a lot of APIs for you to interact and integrate into application with S3 packets. CloudFront the same thing. CloudFront what we see that on the next slide you can input data at CloudFront and then there is an HTTPS link URL generated automatically for the data on that for that distribution so people can access your data using that URL directly. It's using HTTPS but it's also the benefits provided by cloud is not measurable you know when we compare to on-premises. On premises you cannot imagine when I put my data into some storage automatically I have a HTTP link you cannot imagine this right on AWS you can't and then you can set up the permissions who can access it who can access I'm the date of a whole long you can accept you can set up all these using IAM policies okay deeply integrated with AWS and cost effective.Pricing, although this is a pricing slide, but in this slide we can answer Sam's question. First, when data transfers out from the ad location to the internet or to your origin, you will need to pay the cost. And the HTTP request, depending on how many requests to access your data, you will be charged invalidation requests. That's the sentence question. Did you hear TTL before? Time to leave? Time to leave. That's related to what your question was. When we cache data, there's a new copy of the data compared to your origin server. You have a new copy, and on your origin server you may update your data, but your cached data may not know it, so that's why we have TTL (Time to Leave). If 5 seconds, 10 minutes, we are going to check the update of your origin server. If it is updated, we need to copy that file to your cache. That's how we do it. That's the automatic. It all depends on how long we keep this out of this. However, you can invalidate it manually because sometimes you update your data but you know your cached data may not be updated automatically, but you know your users are accessing the data. You don't want your users to access failed data, so you can invalidate the data automatically. Or, you can also write a program to invalidate the data, for example, whenever your object or file is updated, your code will invalidate the cache. But there could be a chart you can see. No additional charge for the first 1000 paths that are requested for invalidation, each month after that, it's this month. You see the price when the cost that we saw are all very low. Right, looks very low. When our use case is small, we pay nothing. Almost like I told you, a lot of startup companies even pay $5/month for their application development; they use all the free tiers is enough for them. So, when your applications are running in production, if your business is very good, you will have a lot of users. It goes up very, very quickly. You will see the money as the price goes up so quickly, your heart will panic at that time! The last one, Dedicated IP, Custom SSL. When you say if you have data in an S3 bucket and now you want to make a copy in some cloud front edge locations, you can create a cloud front distribution of that original data. When you create a distribution, you have to specify a lot of things. For that distribution after it's created, like I just told you, an HTTP URL is automatically generated. Using that automatically generated URL, you don't need to pay, and it's secure. However, you may want to use your own SSL certification. When we want to encrypt our data in transit, we may want to create our own SSL certification. If you want to use your own, you have to pay. Even if you use your own, the Dedicated IP, Custom SSL, you have to pay $600/month for each SSL certificate that is associated with one or more cloud front distributions that use the dedicated IP version. So, this is a legacy way to use CloudFront SSL; the current way, in most cases, people actually use the automatically generated HTTP, it's safe and it's very cheap. For the Custom HTTPS, does it use the AWS own certificate? Oh, yeah, it uses others. You can buy the certificate anywhere, as long as those are CAA or can we do one.And add additional components into it to be able to customize the network. Identify the fundamentals of CloudFace 3. Recognize the benefits of CloudFront.

So when we learn as storage, we have a chapter on storage, we are going to come to S3. Here we didn't mention S3 at all. Right? So when we say, when we learn CloudFront, actually CloudFront works with S3 very closely. It's kind of an extension of S3.

Okay, we finished this module. Let's do our Kahoot!
The job market is pretty good, no? Personally, I don't do any survey, but according to my personal experience, I feel the job market is pretty good.

Everyone says, "Oh, it took so much time," but I got a lot of requests asking me to recommend my students for full-time. They, of course, only ask for good students. I don't want to justify you guys who is good with my students. They because there are new graduate programs, so when the companies hire new graduates, they can get incentive from the government. The government can pay up to 30% if local companies hire new grads, graduate students, new graduate students who graduated, and that attracts a lot of companies to hire new grads.

Yesterday, a big company (I don't know the name now, it's very famous) talked to me asking me to recommend full stack developers. Their requirement is that new grads and with experience. So, if you have it doesn't have to be long experience. If you have a little bit of experience, but you are a new grad, this company welcomes you. I said, "How many people hired?" They said, "Many across Canada." So, you can be relocated to other cities. You can interview over here and speak in Halifax.

There are several major cities in Canada like Halifax, Toronto, Vancouver, and Montreal. One of my students contacted me today and he said he got an offer today, and the company who hired him is going to hire 30 developers. And this student is not hired as an AI developer, not all the positions are AI related. His position is Java developer on AWS. That's his position. His background is Java, he learned AWS, so he got the offer 15 minutes after the interview. And they really, really want him and they gave him the upper bound of the salary he mentioned. They didn't give him in the middle, usually companies will give you the middle salary in a range that you mentioned, but they gave him the upper limit he mentioned for the salary.

So, I feel that the market is pretty good, personally, although so many people are complaining.

What's the general time for fall co-op, or when do the earliest applications start? For co-op?

Yeah, so he was asking that for fall co-op, when is a better time to apply then? Apply for what? Co-op? For fall co-op.

Right now, there are a couple of companies that are starting to apply. The first company I was talking about was about full-time, okay. For co-op, usually for the fall term, some companies start hiring from very early May. Look at our myCareer page, right? You can all access the career page of their housing, they can post positions as early as early May. During the first whole summer, there will be positions posted, but most of the hiring happens in June, July, and August, okay. That DeepSense's most of DeepSense's hiring is in July and August, it's a little bit late. Also, look at the LinkedIn, I believe you guys are looking at LinkedIn in overall time, right? Sometimes the company is just opposed to their co-op positions over there, okay. So, be confident! I feel there are opportunities. That big company asked me to recommend students who graduated last fall, new grads, right? Not long, I asked one of my CHEAs before. I know he knows a lot of students, and he, my last year was very good, he helps the students a lot. I asked him to recommend good students to me. I would recommend those students to the company that he, the TA taught me all of my friends have jobs, very good, right? Good son, they graduate in fall, now all of them have jobs, so I'm really happy to hear that! Although I don't have anyone to recommend, I only have two students right now on my list to recommend to that company. I really do have many, so in the future, as we see reduce the number of students coming to max, I believe this will be a big problem for me in the future. We don't have good students to hire. We can only recommend students that can convince your instructors or your professors. Doesn't mean you are not good if you are not recommended, because sometimes your professors simply don't know you. But you are actually very good. So communication, right? Communication, networking, etc. If you are very good, you need to let people know you are very good. Otherwise, if you are hidden, no one knows there is such a good person hidden somewhere. Okay.
Which is very important. And it's actually a big chapter. Before we start, next week is really weak. We don't have class, don't come to the classroom. And our in class test one is on February 25th. Which is a Wednesday. It covers the content up to today's lecture. So in that week, Monday's lecture won't be covered on Wednesday's test one, ok? Period four during the reading break, you know we got a few students registered 1:30-2:30 during the reading break. It's not our coursework so I expect that because we are not allowed to do coursework. Any more questions? We learned to cheat. We do not focus only on this although EC2 is a very important one or representative one. So we need to understand all the computer services and you see EC2 itself is a separate section and EC2 cost of organization. And container services, you learned container in the first tutorial. So now we will learn how your containers will be deployed onto where they are running on and introduction to Lambda because you are learning a serverless course won't use Lambda too much and AWS Beanstalk I won't introduce Beanstalk too much because it's not for It's not, uh, you know, it's a path that's, uh, uh, not for production. It's good for testing or prototyping, et cetera. Okay, the objectives of this module includes, uh, we're going to provide an overview of different compute services in the cloud. We are going to demonstrate why to use EC2, identify the functionality in EC2 console and perform basic... functions in EC2 to build a virtual computing environment. Identify easy to cause the optimize optimization elements demonstrate when to use Beanstalk demonstrate when we use Lambda and identify how to learn containerized applications in class of managed servers. Did you go to the career fair? Is it today? Did you know? Were there a lot of companies? Only three or four? Only three or four? Oh yeah. That few? Yes around 15 So 50? Yes Only 3 or 4 companies? 40 It's not for computer science. It's for generally everyone Yes Okay which companies? IT companies Global leading JD IT Okay So it means not to keep company right? No okay Yes are they hiring for full-time or co-op? We are looking for both But mainly summer co-op Summer co-ops okay yeah don't be frustrated for the summer co-op a lot of companies are not ready yet. Yeah they need to work out the positions so it's only early February a lot of companies haven't worked out their positions yet there will be more Career page is the best place to look at those companies like the that big company one contacted me for recommendations I'll meet them on Friday I'll ask them I don't know why they internally ask people to recommend oh yeah yeah I got it they will hire the person immediately yeah they don't have time to post on the web collect resumes and then arrange interviews they don't have time to do that they have to hire the person much persons not person okay they have been hired a lot so so that's why that's why they reach out to me individually you know their HR their headquarter is in Toronto their HR at Toronto and the local director at Halifax they both contacted me to for recommendations that means they are hiring people very urgently okay I don't I guess they get some big project they have to they need people to work on immediately It's full-stack developers You know previous I told students the name of the company They got so many emails you know They will blame me Okay Computer services overview let's see what services we are gonna see on AWS These services that are in the boxes How the services were going to learn in this course. And, uh, EC2 we know is a virtual machine and Beanstalk we know it's a platform. You still need to specify the instance type etcetera but you don't even-- you don't need to manage that virtual machine underlying. And your own... Uh, y-you all-- you also you just work on your project you don't need to worry about the underlying machines and then Lambda everyone understands it's a function it's a service computing Fargate anyone heard Fargate before yeah raise your hand Sorry sometimes I mix you two up you know you two have very similar height right sometimes I when I think of Samick right but the face in my mind is her I need to memorize your names and natural names with your face it's good that I almost know all the names in this room John Yvonne Karen Sayunella just kidding Sayunna Sayuni okay sorry right for the wrong names I always have a problem can you type your name again okay I need to look at it I know which name it is but I need to look at spelling M E H E D M E H E D okay Rohan Vishwa Vishwa just got back from India How is India? Very good. Very hot? Yes not very hot compared here compared here is hot right yeah Yeah I have a few previous students who are visiting India right now Yeah they said they don't want to come back because of the food right everyone when they visit their hometowns it's only the food right yeah When I heard he was going back I told him to bring sweets. Bring you sweets back right can you buy all the sweets you want in Indian grocery yeah most but most of them are similar yeah uh Chinese right not the same yeah not the same quality or not yeah I know in different different parts of India you have all different kind of foods right like in China right we have different foods in different parts of China okay Fargate is you know we used to say Lambda can only run relatively lightweight applications because of the restrictions of memory and running time right run time is 15 minutes and the memory is as much as can be at the maximum is 10 GB but how about you have a big application say or how about we have an application that you need to be much a bigger youFor this solution is Fargate. You don't want to use EC2, but you want to run it for longer and more resources. So you can now use Lambda, you use Fargate. We are going to learn that in the future.

For container, we learned Docker Hub. So we store our images in Docker Hub. The counterpart of Docker Hub on AWS is ECR on AWS. Of course, the benefit is that it's very easy to integrate your image into your application, because it is all on AWS.

When we use the services on a cloud level, not only AWS but also Azure and TSD, if we use the tools provided by that cloud provider, one benefit is integration I just mentioned. The second benefit is security because when you use these services together, it's much easier for you to implement IAM policies. We will learn IAM policies in the future to make sure on the security who and who can access what services at what level. IAIn custom nettles, we have:
- If allow is on the top 120-130, then 130 gets discarded.
- If deny isn't on the top, then deny. But if we have IAM policies, it doesn't matter where the deny is. It overpowers the whole. Is that the case?
Okay, no IAM. First, you need to understand that IAM represents identity and access control, so it's for IAM users and the services. But our security group and natural access list is for IT ranges, ports, and protocols. It's totally different.
So when we apply IAM policies, we usually apply that policy either on an IAM user (say if you are one IAM user I created for you for our account). I will restrict what services you can use and see if I allow you to use s3 but I don't allow you to write in s3. That's the permission in IAM who writes those rules in IAM policies, and I can apply my IAM policies for services.
So for example, or resources for example, this EC2 I can allow this EC2 instances to access s3 packages to read, to write whatever. Okay. That's totally different from SG and NECL. Okay? We're going to get there, you will understand at that time okay?
And then EKS and ECS. Both EKS and ECS are container platforms to run containerized applications, so they both can get the containers from the ECR or Dadao. ECS is actually...
Let's look at EKS first. EKS represents Kubernetes. Kubernetes is originally from which company? Google! Kubernetes is originally from Google, but it's open-source. Since it's open-source and it's so powerful and it's so popular, all cloud providers have their version of Kubernetes they wrap around the Kubernetes and try to make Kubernetes easy to be integrated with their ecosystem of the cloud and they try to make it very convenient and easy to use. The core of the Kubernetes is all from Google. You got it?
So Kubernetes is only Kubernetes. We're going to learn this in three lectures, as I know it's not enough, but it's still very good for you to get started. You can learn a lot of things after that by yourself. ECS is AWS version of EKS. They want to have their own container orchestration system. Kubernetes is a container orchestration system. ECS is AWS native container orchestration system. It's not as powerful as EKS, but still it's very good. You can deploy a lot of your product in your own production environment on ECS. Okay.In this course, when we categorize these compute services, EC2 is a virtual machine, right? It is IAE over here. Lambda is serverless or function-based computing. ECS, EKS, and ECR, and Fargate are all for container-based applications. Beanstalk is a task for you to only focus on code, easy to tie into other services, databases, DNS, etc. It's easier for you to get on and develop your application. These are the categories of compute services. We may focus more on the top three. Choosing the optimal compute service: How do you choose which one you want to use? It depends on your use case. This is one principle to apply to anything. When you choose something, we always say "take it in hand." This is a good strategy when you answer questions in interviews when they ask something. You know, everything has two sides, right, or even more than two sides. When they ask a question about something, you may reply, "It depends." That's a very good answer. "It depends" means you know both sides of the question they ask you. You should not say, "Oh, it's really bad" or "Oh, it's really good." Do you say, "It depends" or you always say, "It depends on the use cases," and then you analyze the use cases. That will give them a very good impression that you understand the concept very well.
Some aspects to consider:
- What is your application design?
- What are your usage patterns?
- Which configuration settings will you want to manage?
These are not enough offers okay, we or we less than enough to choose the compute services. Well, we learn more and more about this in this course. We may not learn that much, but in 5411, we'll learn a lot more about this because that's system design, right? Cloud architecting. We are architecting applications. Of course, we need to consider all these requirements for your use cases. Selecting the wrong compute solution for an architecture can lead to lower performance efficiency. That's why we say, "When we architect an application, we never say, 'Your architecture is wrong.'" We always say, "It's good or bad, it can be better," right? We don't say it's bad; we all say it can be better. Let's improve it. We can improve the security, and improve the latency, the performance, the cost, etc. These can all be improved. Eventually, we should have one architecture that balances everything from the requirements.
A good starting point is to understand available compute options. First, let's look at EC2.It's from on-premise servers. They are virtualized. Using EC2, you may think, "What can we do using EC2?" Actually, using EC2, you can do whatever you can do on on-premise machines, okay? Don't think virtual machines should be way less powerful than on-premise machines. No, whatever you can do on-premise, you can do it on EC2. There is always one kind of instance that can satisfy your use cases. But it could be very expensive. But there are also free tiers, right? Free tiers are so cheap, you pay nothing. But you can still do some entry-level prototyping and testing, which is very helpful and is spending zero.

Talking about the platform, I sent you the email. Did you get it? To log in to CS' AWS platform, the real AWS platform, our TA sends me a message saying that he got some errors. We'll try it as soon as possible because if you have errors, use it to that person I mentioned at the bottom at the end of the message. Chris Maxwell sends back through to Chris, "He needs time to process your tickets," okay? So try that platform as early as possible to make sure it works for you. Otherwise, it can be labeled your project.

Now let's look at EC2. The reason why it's called EC2 is because it's Elastic Compute Cloud. That's what because there are two Cs right? That's why it's called EC2. Sounds like a very stupid way to name a service right? But AWS likes to do this. It gives you the full control over the guest operating system, and you can launch instances of any size see into an availability zone anywhere in the world and launch instances from AMIs. We all learned AMIs today. The AMI is a very important concept, and all the technology you have to have in the future if you are a cloud engineer, you will have to make AMIs by yourself in the future. Launch instances with a few clicks or a line of code, and they are ready in minutes.

So when you come up with an EC2 instance, now we are learning cloud, you do a lot of things on the console right? You click things, you choose things in the drop-down menu, etc. And then you come up with something, and you hit launch, and then your EC2 instance waits for a couple of minutes. Your EC2 instances are up.

In a professional environment, if you are working professionally in a company, do you click on the consoles every time? Will you try to launch an EC2 instance? If no, what do you use? I use Scripting, perfect. Yes, scripting is another way. Scripting I see kind of similar. So when we interact. Snapshots? What? Snapshots? Snapshots. Using snapshots, snapshots is something stored over there. How do you use it? Like they are like images sort of. Yeah. But if you want to launch an EC2 instance, no matter if you are using snapshot or AMI, you still need to access it. How do you access it? On the console? SSH SSH? Ok. The AI SDKs that support your Yeah, SDKs. So we have three ways to interact with AWS APIs. That way you are learning, when you are testing things You use the console as a professional program programmer or cloud engineer, you should not rely on the console You should rely on either CLI command line You can issue a lot of commands from your local machine to interact with AWS. The third one is SDK Right? Should be in your program right? Developers have used SDK using your access keys of your account to interact with the AWS resources like APIs. Ok these are the major three ways But for you guys please Do it from CLI and SDK But when we learn when you're doing tasks you use console You can control the traffic to and from instances Launch an EC2 instance This is the console. Then you can see like running instances, dedicated hosts, whether or not it is a dedicated host Elastic IDs etc. This is a summary of what you have What resources you have under your account Ok so we are going to go through nine key decisions when you try to launch an EC2 instance on the console For almost whatever you do on the console there is a way you can conflict back in IAC and command line and SDK Get it? So if you will launch EC2 instances regularly or frequently like an IAC that makes sense In this IAC you are going to specify Which AMI you are going to be used to launch your EC2 instance If your AMI is over there already created You can just specify the AMI If you don't have an AMI You can specify like the hard drive, the memory, the operating system in IAC Or on the command line Or on in your SDK You can do that same thing exactly as what you do on the console Ok Let's see the nine steps how we launch a EC2 instance.you see these are the nine steps we cannot finish all the steps today okay AMI is Amazon machine image it's a template that that's used to create an EC2 instance which is a virtual machine and it contains windows or linux operating system it also has they also offer mac os actually often has some software pre pre-installed and AMI choices quick start is you use linux or windows AMI that are provided by AWS I believe you also you in the future when you launch an EC2 instance pay attention to instance time name there's some instance there's some AMIs the other names are like amazon linux something right those are provided linux systems provided by Amazon and you can also see like Ubuntu etc red hack etc you can choose the one you want okay that's the first thing you choose an AMI so we choose the AMIs you the quick start one is the one a lot of people use because some Amazon provide AMIs are free okay so easy to use you can also customize and store your own AMIs if when you store your own AMIs you can set up the permissions who can access your AMIs when you set up the permission you can restrict access to your group right so your AMI is not public even it's private you can still set up pool your team can access your AMI. Not everyone will access your AMI, so always we need to follow the principle of the least what? For security, we always need to follow the principle of the least... AWS Marketplace is a marketplace where third parties upload or publish their software or tools. There are also AMIs for your use cases. You need to pay. When you use the marketplace AMI, you have to pay extra money, but all the tools in the AWS marketplace are already verified by AWS, so it's safer to use. Community AMIs are not verified by the AWS. So when you use them, you have some risks. But you take the risk yourself. If your use case is not very critical, but you find there is a community AMI that is very convenient for you, you can still try. But you need to take the risk.
So, how do we create an AMI? At a very general and high level, we can create an AMI in this way:
1. If we already have a quick start or other existing AMI, we use that.
2. We want to create a new AMI by using a quick start or other existing AMI (like my AMI or AMI on Marketplace etc.).
3. That means we want to create an image based on some existing ones.
4. That means we want to customize the image and just get a new image for our use cases.
So, in this case, you use that existing AMI, you launch a new instance (a virtual machine), and then you connect to the instance and manually modify it or run a script that modifies the instance (for example, upgrade installed software).
So, basically, no matter what you do, it's kind of a customization of the launch, the instance right? It has a lot of new packages, libraries, or tools installed for your use cases.
Okay, now you have a modified instance, and then you can save this instance as a new AMI, give it a new name, give it a minimal name, and you have a new AMI. This new AMI has a name; a general name is called a golden AMI. Okay, customized AMI is called a golden AMI. There are also silver AMIs. I think we're going to learn that in 3411.
Using this AMI, after this golden AMI is created, you can copy this AMI to other regions so it's convenient. You can copy this AMI to other accounts (AWS accounts) or other regions to share with your team.
Sometimes, say, if we have a very big company, our IT team is in Halifax, our sales team or marketing team they're in United States, in Europe, et cetera, right? Could be at different places. So, when say, now we don't have an IT branch in Europe, but our headquarters is in Halifax, we control everything over here. That branch will try to use what we created. We can copy this AMI to an AZ or any region in Europe so they can use exactly the same thing as us. So, we control everything.For sharing. Okay, that's AMI.
Next, we need to choose the instance type. This is also very critical. Consider your use case and the instance type. We usually consider these factors when we choose the instance type:
- Memory
- CPU
- Storage
- Network performance
Storage is another consideration, and instance type categories. We have:
- General compute
- Memory
- Storage
- Accelerated
We see that in a second. We have a table instance types offer family, generation, and size. We are going to see that as well.
Now let's see the instance type naming. Aside from this, instances are named like this:
- The first letter represents the family (e.g. T)
- S3 represents the generation
- T1, T2, T3 (T is the family name, 3 is the generation number, large is the size)
The size represents the memory and CPUs. That's why you see T3 nano, T3 micro. These are very small machines, and they are often free for a lot of users. In storage, they only support EDS. We're going to learn EDS, which is a very important concept. Basically, it is the block device or the drives/hard drives attached to the EC2 instances.
What you are learning right now, these technologies, these terms, etc. could be super useful if you are going to be a cloud engineer in the future!
Let me give an example right now. The cloud engineer at Deep Sense is working on this all days. Okay, instances, EDS, file system, etc. He's using this all days and he dives much deeper into them like security, etc.
Okay, now we have this term. We have a co-op student. He is working on an AI project developed as a general AI project developed purely on AWS. Yesterday, he sent us a request to my cloud engineer. He said, "I'm going to use API Gateway, Lambda function, EC2 instances, Bedrock, and S3. I need these services for my project. Can you please set up the IAM policies for me to allow me to use it?"
By default, he cannot use anything. Okay, he has zero access to all the resources. Depending on what he's going to use these services, I can imagine architecture. It has data storage like S3, it has EC2 and Lambda, and it has Bedrock. It's at API Gateway most likely from data API Gateway to Lambda function and EC2 instances, and then access the Bedrock, and then it's at other models. The architecture is already in your brain.
So the student who is working on the project learned 5411 for that kind of architecture. Get it? So that's the reason I told you this is very practical, it's very useful when you do your real work.
Okay, now let's see these families of the instance types. I never remember memorize these family names from A or C or R or D etc. I want to emphasize these general compute, memory, accelerator, and storage.
General purpose means that in these families, these servers do not have very specific features for general purpose. They don't have super big memories, since you use it to have super big memories for just general use cases.
And then, compute optimized, high performance, high performance computing (HPC). When we say compute optimized, that means it has strong what part of the computer?For high performance computing, they always have very strong CPUs. Of course, they can also have a lot of memories. That's also a feature in a lot of cases. Memory optimized, like in-memory database. I mentioned in the last step, right? Even we can put our database into memory, the performance is super high. So in a lot of applications that need super low latency, we use in-memory databases.

Next, accelerated computing. Tell me when you hear accelerated computing, what do you think of? Like Jin-Sen Huang gave a talk a few days ago. He said, "You know, sometimes people don't specifically mention or explicitly mention CPU and GPU. They only use these general terms: HPC and Accelerated."

Jin-Sen mentioned that previously (90% of the computers on the market were HPC and 10% were Accelerated computing). Now it is the other way around. Is it 10% High Performance Computing and 90% Accelerated Computing? That means CPU and GPU, okay?

Generally, people don't say that. We don't have to say the parts, right? We can generalize those terms. So, whenever you hear "accelerated computing," it represents GPU. "Storage optimized" is distributed fiber system, that's big storage hard drives.

We can in the future, we're going to learn about hard drives. We often use, like, a single hardware or two hard drives. In the future, we're going to use, like, a webinar and radar race, and we mentioned that in the beginning of this term, radar race. We can make that, and we can mount them onto different mount points, and then make them ready for our users. It's also good for distributed file systems.

Okay, next. Instance type networking feature.You may choose to get what kind of an effort you need for your instance. The network bandwidth varies by instance types. Look at the tables. There are very good tables on AWS official website.
In the future, when we search, you cannot memorize all the things we teach. But it's good that you understand the things we teach. So when you need to find out some information, you need to search. Okay, searching will be your best friend in the future, even for some senior cloud solution architect!
I used to work in a company. I interacted with network senior network engineer/architect a lot of times. It's on GCP, so whenever I have a request or issue, I discuss with that person. We have online meetings because he is in California. He shared his screen with me, Google is his best friend! He's googling every single second because for the things he wants to search, he wants to find almost everything he has to Google first and then he finds out where it is on the console or how he is going to do it or some official documentation.
So you will have to google a lot. Or nowadays, at that time it was Google, and nowadays you don't need to. You may not want to google right? You can just use the AI tools. It's a better way to search. It doesn't search, it's not searching for the information, its solution given to you directly.
So when you have to read some documentations, you read the official AWS documentations. Right? You don't... Of course, you can read a lot of blog and articles. That's also helpful. But first, we need to rely on the official documentation. Why?
1. It's official. It should be right.
2. They update it frequently. You may read very old information on other websites although it's very good, but AWS may already updated their documentations, so you may read very old technologies.
To maximize networking and bandwidth performance of your instance type, if you have independent instance launch done, okay, this don't worry about this cluster placement group yet. We haven't learned this yet. That represent how you put your EC2 instance in a availability zone or in a rack. You can specify that. Okay? You can put a few instances in a single rack. You can specify that. That's called placement groups. Whether we're going to use partition group, cluster placement group, etc. Enhanced networking types are supported on most instance types. Enhanced network types include elastic network adapter and also this Intel virtual function interface. I believe if you will be a network engineer on the cloud, you will have to learn a lot about networks on the cloud. There is a certification which is Network Associate Certification of AWS that's for network engineering.

Now specify network settings: VPC, subnet. Do you need a public IP address? See, we all already learned this, right? So we feel much better when we see this. Can you remind me public IP addresses? We mentioned there are two kinds of public IP addresses. And Elastic. Is this one on the slide elastic? No, no. This is the public IP address that you specify on the console when you try to launch a EC2 instance. This is called the general public IP address. So after you finish the provision of the EC2 instance, you are going to have a public IP address. But when you reboot the machine, it's a chain. So if you want to make it static, you will need to use the Elastic public IP address. You need to create an Elastic public IP and store it in your account and attach it to your EC2 instance. Perfect. You guys are getting a lot more information. And you can even memorize the information we talked before which is very good.

Attach IAM role (optional). Although this says it's optional, that means technically you don't have to, but in a lot of cases we need to attach the roles if your EC2 is going to access other resources in your architecture. So, for example, here is your EC2 instance. If you know your EC2 is going to access a S3 bucket, you will have to. You can attach the role to your EC2 while you configure the EC2 before you launch it (before it's provisioned). You can also attach the role to the EC2 after it's provisioned. If during the configuration of your EC2 you want to attach the role, there is a command where you can choose the created role.

Before we understand much about IAM policies and roles, we are not able to talk too much about the rules and policies. That's all the contents for today, it's not too much. Let's do our Cahoot! Is best to describe it as Lambda is not container-based; it's function-based. But we can still deploy container-wise applications to Lambda. Lambda itself is function-based. Number 2: Which service is container-based? This is AWS's version of Kubernetes, or relatively lightweight Kubernetes compared to the real EKS. So yeah, of course it's not EC2. EC2 is not container-based. It can be anything. EC2 is just a machine. Beanstalk is a pest. It's not container-based. AMI is an image for you to launch a virtual machine, right? AMI itself is not a virtual machine.

Now let's look at the podium. Sanif has the highest ancestry of four. Perfect!

Okay, number one.

Oh, we still have a question. I'm sorry. What is a key feature of Lambda? Week 5 lecture 2 networking and content delivery. Today we're going to start learning networking and content delivery. This is part of the Cloud Foundation course on AWS Academy. You can see the same module in the academy course. It's module 5. I will show you in a second. OK, I will show you the lecture. So if you go to the course, you can see it's module 5, and you are able to see there is a lap. It's called lap 2, because we came to the order of our topics so that lap 2. We're going to do that lap and then announce the end of week. OK? So we do it on the academy course. You can do anything on Brightspace. After you finish it, our TA is going to copy your marks to Brightspace. And very important: you need to change your user name from email ID to your real name, otherwise the team, our TA doesn't know who that is. It's very hard to find who this person is. So change your username from your email to your real name, otherwise you will not get a mark of that lap, OK? I was thinking to give one more tour next week because this Friday we have a tutorial, right? This Friday we don't. Oh yeah, this Friday we don't have one. The next Friday we have one, right? So it's going to be hard to- and we don't have that many students right now, so it's very hard to design a time. Okay, so let's forget this for now. I'm going to ask students after we get more people today. OK, it's in module 5 in the academy course, so you can see this slide. I get the slide from the academy course directly, but I modified something or I added something. I think my contents will be more than that, but the good thing is that if you feel you get behind or you don't understand something, of course you can ask me questions. You can also listen to the lectures in that academy course. There was someone teaching, but he teaches in a very, very short and brief way, so he only teaches the AWS stuff. That's the major difference between him and our lectures.

OK, so in this lecture in this module, we have six sections. Today we are trying to finish the first two sections and four activities. Sometimes we can do some activities if we have time in a class, otherwise you can do it by yourself. In the academy course, they always have this kind of demo (it's very good UPC demonstration), so you can watch that and then do our lab. Our lab has very detailed instructions of how to do it.

OK, in this module, what will I be able to learn? We are going to recognize the basics of networking, describe virtual networking in the cloud with Amazon VPC, and label a network diagram. We will design a basic VPC architecture, indicate the steps to build a VPC, identify security groups (which is very important), create your own VPC and add additional components to it. To produce a customized network, identify the fundamentals of cloud 53 and cloudfront, and also we got the access of our AWS credit, the real AWS credit from our faculty. Everyone has $50. I'm going to send you some messages on how to log on using your NetID. This is really good news!

OK, now let's quickly go through some network basics. You have learned these in your undergrad study, so it's very easy. We have different networks, right? Networks could be public networks, big networks, or very small private networks. The networks are connected by your computer. So we have a few devices connected to the BUP model, and you have your own private subnet, and your subnet is going to be connected to the ISP's network, which is allowing the routers et cetera, and then you can access the data, right? So we have different networks, and we have routers within them, and they are connected. So we'll try to find our devices online. In an app, we use IP addresses, right? So when we learn IP addresses, especially when you learn it in your enterprise study, you learn IPv4. And now we have IPv6 as well. But in most cases we are talking about IPv4 because IPv4 is enough for most of our use cases. So in IPv4 the IP address has four decimal numbers. And each decimal number represents an eight bit byte number, right? Containing eight bits. So totally for one IP address we have 32 binary numbers. And yeah so for IPv4 we have a 32 bit, and for IPv6 we have 128 bit. In the course when we mention IP addresses I was talking about IP before. So did you hear this before the CIDR IP range? Yes. Yeah that's nice. It's easier for me to explain. So CIDR blocks or CIDR range is very important for us to understand the range of IP addresses that you can assign to your network and your devices. So basically what we have is that we have four decimal numbers and then we have a range. This range represents the number of bits that are fixed. For example if we have this IP address 192 dot 0 dot 2 dot 0, if here is 24 that means there are 24 bits that their IP addresses are fixed. We can only change the IP address of the rest 8 bits so that 8 bits represent the range of our changing IP addresses right? So in this case we already fixed these three decimal numbers so only the last one is flexible easy to understand right? So here it could be 16 it could be age it could be 22. You can calculate how many binary numbers that are fixed and then you can you can calculate how many are rest so you can use the rest of the number of the bits to calculate your IP range. This is very important because when you design a network you have to understand how many IP addresses say in my team or in my company how many we need and then you need to add a calculate how what the center block looks like for your company.

And also we learned OSI model in the OSI model from the last tier (which is the physical) to the top tier (which is application), we go through a few tiers for our use cases or for us to learn cloud. We focused on transport tier TCP/IP TCP/UDP and application tier because on the cloud what we do in those cases we use the application tier right? Because we write a lot of applications like HTTP requests etcetera but API calls a lot of them API calls are at application tier. But also in a lot of cases we also use TCP/IP or UDP. Why? For example when you access a database it's definitely not HTTP, it's TCP. And for some applications what you use is not HTTP requests. So it's TCP. Okay, so that's why we mainly use layer 4 and the layer 7 and in 5411 we're able to learn in the summer. By the way, some students ask me the registration date for 5411 is February 24th. Okay, on the page of important dates on Dell's important dates you can see it's February 24th. Usually if it is the registration opens at 10 o'clock in the morning but don't worry, we don't have that many students right? Previously, students had to compete to get a seat but now there's not a problem. The course is going to be taught with 4149 including an undergrad version. I teach you guys together but they have a lower requirement for 4149 students.

15411 is an important topic which is load managers. I believe you've heard of load managers before right? It's an important topic for system design. So when we talk about load managers most of them are at either level 4 or level 7. Do you know which level is faster or latency is shorter? Level 4  is faster. The high requirement of latency systems we try to use TCP instead of HTTP. Doesn't mean HTTP is not good. If you can use TCP, then you can use TCP for the latency requirements. OK. That is the very basic network knowledge we learned before.

Now let's look at Amazon VPC. On AWS, it's called a VPC. On Azure, it's called vNet. That concept is exactly the same. On GCP, it's also called a VPC if I'm not wrong.

Did you see that we call it Amazon VPC instead of AWS VPC? In the future, if you pay attention, you will see that some services are prefixed with Amazon, some are prefixed with AWS. You know the differences? For services with Amazon, that's a stand-alone service. For services like EC2s, we call it Amazon EC2s or Amazon S3s. But for some services which are utility services or part of a big ecosystem, we call them AWS services. For example, the CICD pipeline, those services code builder, etc. Those mega utilities are called AWS services. That clearly we can say AWS, VPC, Amazon VPC - it's the same thing. Okay, we've mixed them, but you need to understand the differences.
Okay, now let's look at some concepts. VPC enables you to provision a logically isolated section of the AWS cloud where you can launch AWS resources in a virtual network that you define. So you define a VPC and then you can put some resources, for example, EC2 instance, inside this VPC to make it secure. Not all resources on AWS can be put into VPC. Some resources are outside of VPC, for example, S3.
Okay, so I'm going to learn storage in the future chapters, and even today, we are going to touch a little bit about the S3 or services that's not in the VPC. But still, a lot of resources can be put into a VPC, as long as that service that they're supporting you know for a lot of services, especially for computing services, the supporting technology is virtual machines. So, if your use case or your design in your architecture requires you to specify the instance type of the virtual machines, they can be put in an agency.
Okay, we're going to learn this more right now; it's a little bit confusing for you guys. So, it gives you control over your virtual networking resources, including selection of IP address range and creation of subnets inside the VPC. Okay, VPC is bigger than subnets, and the configuration of route tables and network gateways.
In the last lecture, you mentioned standard vision variable right loading. Yeah, routing is the way how we direct our traffic. We're going to see some examples today. It enables you to customize the network configuration where VPC and enables you to use multiple layers of security using VPC is a very good way to secure your stuff!
1. If you have a boundary, second inside the boundary you can put your resources and you can apply security measures on the resources inside the boundary and also at the boundary.
So that way it's very safe. When you design, say, I told you nowadays we design a Genic AI system right. A Genic AI for a Genic AI system we need to access the models remotely using token or whatever right to make the API calls. Security is very important right for a Genic AI system, but how to keep your systems secure? I access a remote thing, where do I access the remote models from? You try to get everything that you access from in the VPC.
So no matter what you use, you try to keep them in a VPC that way you have multiple layers of security measures that you can apply. Maybe this is too much for you to learn right now, but I want to let you know in a lot of cases, when we try to make our stuff secure, we have made enough VPC. If we skip this VPC, what will happen to our resources? If we skip this VPC still for Genic AI, normally only compute EC2 instance is without. Okay, if you have an EC2 instance, it has to be in a VPC. You can not put it nowhere! Yeah, so for some services, they don't simply don't have an VPC like S3. For EC2 instances, definitely you have to put it in an VPC and also a subnet. And then you can apply instance-level and the network-level security measures from them. That's not bigger security, that's very very important. We're going to learn more about that in 5411. So, this course, although it's a foundation, I'm going to make it a little bit more advanced than before. Previously, this course was very basic, now the changes are in 5411. I try to add more content of system design. I cannot teach all the details of AWS cloud architecting, but AWS cloud architecting contains so many details, and those details can be easily found online.
Okay, so I feel nowadays, when we teach, the most important thing is guidance. It's not teaching you all the details. Previously, I taught all the details about cloud architecting on AWS. Those details you can learn them using some online resources. So, now I feel system design is so important! Students are requesting this again and again. I want to, for example, include two-thirds of the lectures of 5411 should be system design, and then using one-third of the time, I tell you what services you canuse those services. There are so many features, it's very easy for you to find online. Also, I'm going to give you another course, which is also an AWS Academy course. It's called "Architecting" course. You can access all the lectures and slides from that course as well.
Okay, I think this way so that because I'm going to teach a little bit less cloud architecting on AWS in that course, in this course I'm going to teach a little bit more than before about AWS services.
Okay, okay! So now let's look at a VP. VPC is a service on the AWS console. You can see it. After today's lecture, watch the demo, and then try to do the lab. The lab you can do the level a lot of times, as long as you do it by the deadline by the due day. The highest score is going to be recorded, so if you get 90 today, do it again, try to correct the errors, make it 100. Those labs are very simple but it's very helpful. Okay, so try to get a very good score on those labs.
VPC is a service you can find it on the console, and then using the service you can create another VPC, so it's logically isolated from other VPCs. But first, I think we need to understand the concept of region, AZ-1, AZ-2. I think for region, we already have the idea. I used to mention Canada central one, Canada central, Canada west which is in Calgary. These are two regions, right? So US East one is a region which is in Virginia, US East 1A is an available region AZ. In one region, we usually have more than three, at least three AZs. In one AZ, we have usually more than three data centers. You get it? So in one region, at least there are nine data centers. These data centers are all connected by AWS's own network, very high speed network, much quicker than our regular internet. If you do tests, you will see that I did do some tests before from my home to AWS and to regular network using that regular network, AWS is way quicker than the regular internet.
When we create a VPC, first we need to choose which region we are creating this VPC in. After you choose this meeting the region, this VPC is created across all the AZs, but you can select which AZs my VPC is going to be applied here, so that in this case is in AZ-1 and AZ-2. It's dedicated to your AWS account. When you create a region, when you create a VPC, you are under a certain AWS account belongs to you, right? Or you are managed and it belongs to a single AWS region. One VPC cannot go across multiple regions; it's under one region. In the future, in your real work, when you try to create some resources, try to keep everything in the same region. That's the principle, okay? That's the principle. If your company has money, has a good budget, you want to make disaster recovery plans, you want to have redundant resources, etc. You can keep multiple regions, because that's very expensive within one region.
What's the benefit?
1. Within one region, geographically closer, right? Latency will be better.
2. The data transfer between one region, copy data, etc. is free.
Okay, you may think all within one region I don't feel a kind of safety, I feel it's not secure. If my staff gets crashed in one AZ, my staff is in one AZ, but I lose my data, maybe okay. So when you choose one region, that's the principle. It's better if you have money. Is it better that you keep your stuff in two AZs, at most two AZs, with not very good budget? Okay, or in other words, in most cases, two AZs is more than enough for you to keep your stuff safe. That's the best, or the best balance of budget and safety for your data and your application. This is very, very, very rare, two AZs in one region crash at the same time. Okay, it's very, very rare. And also, even though those two AZs crash at the same time in one region, we have at least three AZs, and your data should be like your S3 data, which is usually replicated, so in three days. Okay, so you lose the chance, you lose your stuff, is very, very rare.
So when you are in your real product, in your company, a lot I don't know how to leverage this. The principal is two ACs in one region, okay? Safe and cheap. If you have money, or if you have a very high requirement of security in multi-region, of course it's good, right? Okay, sub-net. Within one VPC, we can create sub-nets. The sub-nets can be in different ACs, and the range of IP addresses that divide a VPC. So, a VPC has a CIDR block. Each sub-net also has a CIDR block. Because the two sub-nets are in the same VPC, the CIDR block of the sub-net has to be within the CIDR block of the VPC's CIDR block. You got it? It can only be smaller than the VPC's CIDR block, and they cannot overlap. Okay? So, one sub-net belongs to one AC, and they can be classified as private or public. I'm going to tell you how to make it public or how to make it private in a second.

Okay, IP addressing. When you create a VPC, you assign it to an IPv4 CIDR block. That's why I just mentioned VPC CIDR blocks; it's a bigger one. You cannot change the address range after the VPC is created. You cannot modify the CIDR block, and the largest IPv4 is /16, okay? The smallest is /28, okay? Remember this, memorize this. The largest one, /16 means that you have 16 bits of fixed binary IP address, and you have 16 bits of flexible IP range, right? So, 16 bits, you can calculate how big the range is, right? That is very, very big! And then, the smallest one is /28, that means you can only have 4 bits of flexible IP ranges, right? We have a very small range of IP addresses. The smallest one is not /32. In general, not in the context of Cloud, if it's a /32, that means the fixed number of bits is 32. So, it's a unique IP address. It's not a real one, actually.

Okay, IPv6 is also supported, and CIDR blocks of sub-nets cannot overlap. Sub-net CIDR blocks are a subset of the VPC's CIDR block, and they cannot overlap.

Okay, now let's look at an example. Another very important concept is reserved IP addresses. It's also an example of citel blocks. So a VPC with IPv4 citel block is this big. This is the biggest one. 16 bits of IP addresses and it has 65,536 IP addresses and it has four equal size subnets: Subnet 1, 2, 3, and 4. But you can have five, you can have two, you can have one after you. And each subnet in this case in this example is equal. Their size is equal because everyone has 24 of fixed IP bits. So they have only 8 bits left. We should have 256 IP addresses with 8 bits, right? However, for each subnet, we have 5 reserved IP addresses. So when you calculate the usable IP addresses for a given subnet, or calculate how many the maximum IP addresses it can have, and then minus 5, that is your usable IP addresses. These 5 IP addresses are the top 4 IP addresses and the last one. You don't need to memorize what they are used for (like here DNS, future use, etc.). Don't even memorize them. What you need to memorize is that's a 5 reserved IP addresses, the top 4 and the last one. You cannot use. So your usable is always the maximum minus 5 that your usable IP addresses. This is not only this doesn't only apply for AWS, it applies to Azure and GCP as well. This is a general, not just specifically for AWS.

Okay, here are very important things: public IP addresses. Sometimes we need to expose our services, right? We need to use public IP on AWS. There are two different kinds of public IPs. For example, when you have an EC2 instance, by default, you're going to have a private IP automatically assigned to the EC2 instance. If you check the box "Make it public," a public IP is going to be assigned to your EC2 instance automatically, only if you check the box.

So, now if you have an automatically assigned public IP address, this IP public address is not a static IP address. What does it mean? If you reboot your EC2 instance, your public IP will be changed. That's why sometimes when you see some like in some exams, there could be some questions saying that my EC2 instance is not changed, nothing is changed, I only rebooted or I stopped it and then started my service cannot be accessed anymore. What could be the reason? Therefore, options for choices should be the public IP address is not static.

So, in that case, if you want to keep your private IP address static and it doesn't change, and/or it survives those reboots, you need to use Elastic IP address, which is a static elastic IP address. It's a resource you can provision, you can generate on the console, and then you can save it under your account. This elastic IP address is like something plug in. You can attach it to your interfaces or you can just attach it to a machine. It's going to be attached to your interfaces, and then you can use this as a static IP address. It just survives any reboots, and it's done.

So, this is a major difference between them. The dynamic one is automatically assigned or when you choose to have a public IP. When you choose to have a public ID, the dynamic one. I said when you have EC2 instance, you are going to automatically have a private private private IP address. There is also already a network interface in the EC2 instance that assigns that private IP address to it. So, if you also get a dynamic public IP address, you won't get a new network interface. The public IP address the traffic to the public IP address is going through the same network interface for that private network. So, we still use just one network interface. We can also generate an elastic network database. It's like a hardware device. You can generate this one and you can keep it in your account, save it in your account. When you want to use it, attach it to some EC2 instance and you can also attach an IP address, an elastic or static public IP address, to this elastic network interface and then attach them to an EC2 instance. It is very flexible. What's the benefit of this? So if you have two EC2 instances, EC2-1 and EC2-2, so you have two versions of machines. So now your public IP is attached so when EC2-1 crushes due to whatever problems, you can easily reattach, remove this public IP too because it's a static and elastic one, right? So it won't change. You can change it to attach it to EC2 instance. So for example, if EC2 instance is redundant or your backup machine, these run exactly the same applications. You just want to keep it safe. So now if EC2-1 has a problem, you can attach this public IP to the EC2 instance and then continue your service. So you can re-map the elastic IP address in this case.

Okay, route tables. I believe you learned route tables when you learned networks when you were an NWA student, right? A route table contains a set of rules for routes. That you can conflict direct network traffic, and each route specifies the destination and a target. A destination and a target, the destination means where the traffic is going (like in this case, the traffic is going to that IP range or those devices that are assigned in that IP range), and the target means where to send the traffic that matches the destination. We're going to see examples in a second. We're going to see that this is always like some device we define on AWS. Our traffic is going to send to this device, this device is connected with the destination IP range devices. We're going to see that in a second. However, in this case, what I want to mention is that this is for any route table. You are going to see in the future there are default route tables. When you have a VPC, you have a default route table for your VPC. When you create new subnets inside VPC, there are default route tables for your subnets. So, for every subnet, there is a default entry which is this one because the target is local (it is a local route for the communication within the VPC). Okay, so that means say if you have a VPC created and the local entry (local route) cannot be added, edited, you cannot remove it, you cannot modify it. You can add new things, okay, you can now remove it. So, if you have subnet one, subnet two, subnet three, subnet four, all these subnets can access each other. That's why that's what this global route does. Okay, allow subnets inside one VPC to access each other because inside one VPC is safe. However, in our real life, in our real projects, we don't use the default route. For different route tables, we are going to use our own customized route tables. For example, in subnet two, you may only allow S1 to access the devices in S1 to access the devices in S2. That can happen very, very often, right? Because you want to separate them. As one has a device has an IP range. Which is which, it doesn't have any overlap with 2 and 3. So, in S2, you can set up when we run that security, we can set up the rules. We only allow the source, the IP source from S1. S1's IP range to access S2. This way, even though by default, all the subnets can access each other, S3 and S4 are not able to access S2 anymore. Okay, that's the right way to do it. Our use cases can not be exactly the same as the default setup, okay? What's the use of subnets? What's the use of the subnets? Why do you have subnets right? Okay one second I'm going to explain that to you. Each subnet must be associated with a relative at most one. And there is a default one and we should attach our customized one. Okay this is the section two we learn oh we haven't finished three sections today okay. A VPC is a largely isolated section and the VPC belongs to one region and a VPC requires one side block right and a VPC is subdivided into subnets and a subnet belongs to one availability zone that requires one side block within that VPC and they cannot overlap. Route tables control traffic for a subnet and route tables have a built-in local route that you cannot edit and you cannot delete. That is for the traffic between the subnets and you add additional routes to the table to customize the traffic for your use case and the local route cannot be deleted. Basically that's what we learned that's some basics of VPCs and router tables and subnets. Now let's see more about subnets, Hirsch, right? Hirsch suggested why do we have multiple subnets, what's the purpose? Okay in this diagram we see this kind of diagram in the future, don't you will see more and more diagrams and some diagrams are very complicated. Don't panic when you see these kind of diagrams because a lot of in a lot of cases these diagrams have a lot of repetitive parts especially for redundant systems. When we learn 3411 we will see more about this kind of diagrams. In this one, we always use this look at the diagram from the bigger part to the smaller part. Bigger part is region now we see it's in one region right sometimes you can easily see your diagrams is region 1 and your region 2 you can see this okay so you need to look at the bigger scope of the diagram and you understand how many regions you have okay so now you have one in one region, you created one VPC, and in this VPC you created two subnets into one AZ, it can be into two AZs they can be into one AZ depending on your use case. So now the VPC side block is /16 and the subnet side block is /24, which is smaller than the side block of the VPC. So now we say that this one is public subnet and this one is private subnet when you define or when you create a subnet in a VPC, the name of the subnet is given by you okay we this public subnet is a name of the subnet. You can give my subnet name is Hirsch that's fine okay but that doesn't mean anything. It means that it's your subject but it doesn't mean it's public or private right so when we give example we often give names like public subject, private subject, private subject one, private subject two, or dev subject, product subject, etc. We can give these kind of names okay. So when we give names like public subject and a private subject, the name itself doesn't represent technically what we to be implemented. Say, if we don't have these, this part, okay? If we do have this part and these two subnets are exactly the same except for the side rock blocks. They're exactly the same. Even though this one calls-- The name is public, you still cannot access the resources inside this subnet although you call it "public." Okay? So the reason why it is public is that in this case we created a internet gateway. It's like a game like a device you can create on the console of AWS. You create an internet gateway, attach it to the VPC. So internet gateway can only be attached to a VPC and not to a subnet okay? You attach this to the VPC and then you modify the route table for the public subnet to make that devices or the resources inside that public subnet able to access the Internet through this internet gateway. How do we modify? This route cable attached to the public subnet is here. We first have this local fixed entry and then we add one more entry that in in this Customized entry the target is the ID of the internet gateway. When you create this internet gateway, on the console you copy the value of the IE. You put it over here. And then the destination design. The target is we reach this target and the destination is to their internet. The internet IP address is 0 zeros. So that's how we make this subnet be able to access the internet.

So if we don't have this route table, customized route table, even though you give a name, public subnet, it's still a private subnet. The subnets are by default they are private. When we say private, we mean they cannot access the internet.

Is demeterized zone just another name for public subnet or is it something specific? Can you say that again? Is demeterized the same as public subnet or is it a type of? It is a what I didn't understand the first part. Demeterized zone! What? Demeterized zone! It's known as DMZ. It's like a public facing infrastructure of a company but isn't the same as the subnet or is it on application there? I don't understand what zone you are talking about? D-D-METERIZED DEMETERIZED. Yes, I don't know that term sorry. Maybe it's the public subnet, but demeterized zone. The public subnet is configured by the infrastructure by connecting it to an internet gateway, and it is exposed to the internet. It is a similar architecture when we are using dematerialized zones in a company's infrastructure. So if the server is in dematerialized zones, it is exposed to the internet; if it's not, then it's not exposed to the internet. I thought it is the same as this.
Oh, that's okay. If something is a public subnet, it is by default accessible on the internet. Yeah, so now after we have this internet gateway, and after we modify this route table, all the resources inside this subnet can access the internet. Do you get it? All of the resources in this subnet will use this route table. When they use route table, they can go through the internet through the internet gateway.
Can anyone from the internet access those resources? Yeah, that's another thing. If you don't have any security matters like security groups, and we're going to learn that later, maybe in the next lecture, they can access it. But we can restrict the access. Is it bi-directional or just one-directional? For this internet gateway is bi-directional by default. It's bi-directional, but you definitely need to restrict the access from the internet to your resources. You have to modify the security group and network control list access control list. We're going to learn that in the next lecture to control the direction of the traffic.
According to the description of who used that demeterized zone, the concept is very similar. Yes, it's very similar. So now the public subnet cannot access anything yet. The private subnet - the resources in here - they cannot access these resources in a public subnet by default. But they cannot access the outside yet. Shouldn't that be like 24? Like 1.0? This is the default one. The default one is for all the subnets to access each other in the same VPC. It can access this. From this subnet, you can access this subnet if it's turned on. If you don't use this one, so if there are multiple subnets, you cannot access the resources in other subnets. You have to make it very big. The default one is always a very big one - it's the VPC's IP range. But the subnet is attached to it through the subnet. It uses the VPC's IP range in order to access all the resources in other subnets.
So on those subnets, we'll add that first link. Yeah, and then you add more entries to customize your route table. This is how you access the internet from the public subnet or how you make a subnet a public subnet. You need two steps:
1. Create an internet gateway and attach it to the VPC
2. Modify that route table to make sure that the resources in a subnet will be able to access
This is for public subnet.NAT，Network Access Translation Gateway. Net gateway, here the purpose of net gateway is to access the internet from the private subnet. Okay? Access the internet from the private subnet. Why do we need to do this? Not to reveal the internal IP address. For example if there is an EC2 instance and we want to like download something in that so we need like a internet access resources that are not like inside this. Right if we have our say our back-end system running in private subnet for example our databases for our application service they are running Linux in the private subnet they need to get maintained but EC2 instances have to be maintained by yourself. Right? So you need to install the updates and the patches etc however is in a private subject how can you get them get the patches you can only download the patches from the internet right so in that case we need to install a net gateway then that gateway can only be installed in the public subnet. Okay you cannot install a net gateway in the private subnet. so you installed a network in the public subnet the net gateway can access the internet through the internet gateway from the topic subject you got it okay so as long as your private subnet can access the navigate way your resources in a private subject can access the internet do you get it okay um You can see we have a private route table over here attached to the private subnet which allows the access of the navigate way which is in the public subnet okay and our destination is still the internet and in that gateway and internet gateway they are different. Internet gateway allows bi-directional access. Net Gateway only allows the access that egress access okay only allows you access outside we won't allow internet to access our resources in a private segment that would be a disaster right we only allow go out give us stuff we want and we download them okay this is a very big big difference between uh private subject and uh private subject how access the internet any questions in this example uh we have private subject it doesn't contain that right doesn't come in that gateway so can it access internet? Yes. For the private subject we have this route table this route table has the access to the net gateway which is in the public segment right when this EC2 access this network and through this net gateway we can using this route table we can access the internet gateway when we can access an internet gateway we can access the internet so for the resources in private sector they can access that Okay, so this way you can protect your resources in a private subnet. So NetBeans can only be in a public subnet? Yes, NetBeans can only be in a public subnet. They cannot be in a private subnet. If they are in a private subnet, your private subnet becomes a public subnet. You get it? Because you access that navigate way from the private subnet to the internet gateway right so you become a public subnet. So now you see your question version about why do we need multiple subnets? So if you have your UI running on on the EC2, your UI should be public facing and your UI will access your application server and databases. They should be in the private subject right you can even have multiple private subnets. Say SubNet one contains your app servers and SubNet two contains your database servers but they should be able to access here and then access here right but application server accesses your database server so that's why we have multiple subnets.

It all depends on your use cases. You can put your UI server, front-end server in this VPC in this public subnet and then you access your application server in a different VPC. Look at how access resources at different VPCs. but inside of VPC resources can stay in Subnets only. Yes. Our resources don't stay in VPC only VPC is just a logical boundary. In VPC we have to create subnets. vpc sharing，There is a service called VPC Resource Access Manager. It's called RAM Resource Access Manager. I don't know if you can practice it. I never used this before. So in this Resource Access Manager, you use your account. You have multiple accounts, OK? The purpose is to share VPCs across accounts. These accounts should be under the same AWS organization. This is, I think, too much for you guys. AWS organizations are way more, you know, way more stuff when we learn AWS organizations before we learn that. In one AWS organization, we can have multiple accounts so if we want to share the VPC between these accounts, we can use this RAM service to share them, OK? I don't want to talk much about this. I don't feel you are going to use this for now. In the future if you need to use it, read the information and after understanding the basics of VPC and subnets, this is not hard to understand in the future. Yeah I want to explain more important things here with this sharing. So let us say two VPCs cannot access each other by default. So in some cases we really want two VPCs to access each other. We need the resources in the subnets in the VPCs to access the resources in a subnet in another VPC. When we want to do that it's very simple actally so we can on the console we can create a VPC Peering. When you create a VPC Peering there should be one VPC send a request to another say from VPC A send a request to VPC B that I'm going to peer with you. VPC B has to acknowledge that accept your peering request and then they can be peered okay so basically we create a VPC Peering device and the VPC A request VPC B to peer with with it using that device after VPC B agrees you need to modify the route table for the two VPCs. In VPC A, you add the vpcpeerring device ID and then the destination IP address is vpcb/ip/cdb in vpcb you still add the same vpc peering ID the device ID and then you specify the IP range as the cdb of vpc A. Straight forward right? This is very straightforward. So when we use vpcpeering it's very convenient you see. Quite convenient and you can access another VPC resources. The IP ranges of A and B cannot overlap otherwise it's a big mess and transitive peering is not supported say if A is peered with B, B is peered with C, A is not peered with C automatically okay and you can only have one peer-in resource between the same two VPCs between A and B you can only create one VPC peering device. Okay? Very straight-forward. The reason why we learned this is first it's simple second we're going to introduce another concept based on VPC peering concept for side-to-side VPN and also the next slide direct connect. I don't want to explain much because first we won't use them especially for direct connect okay for a side-to-side VPN if you are a network engineer in your company you are going to config the VPN I have never configured VPN before I've never been a network engineer anywhere so if in a future you are going to do that read the documentation follow the steps. instruction step by step okay? Even though you learn it today you still have to follow the instruction step by step okay there are a lot of things in there but for direct connect I want to give you the concept what does it mean when you access if is patched for organizations direct connect is for not for individuals is for organizations that has at least 10 000 employees very big organizations so if like Netflix I believe Netflix have their own direct connect to AWS. I only have my own network directly connected with AWS's network. That way, when our employee is using the direct connect to upload data, whatever you do, it's private net, it's not public internet anymore.
1. It's safe
2. The bandwidth is guaranteed
The throughput would be very good. That's the major reason. So if your company doesn't generate huge revenues you won't use this because this is very expensive.
We will need to learn the concept of this VPN and direct connect. We really need to do this in the future if you're working in a big company, and your company wants to do this following instructions. There'll be a lot of things.
What we want to learn today here is endpoints. This is a very important concept. Endpoints means that when you try to connect two resources, one is in VPC and another one is not in VPC. Will we connect them? Will we use EC2 instances? Even though they are not in the same VPC, we can peer them, right? And then they can access each other.
So now, like I said, some resources are not in VPCs, but if we want to access them securely, how do we do it? This is called endpoints. We have two kinds of endpoints:
1. Interface endpoint
2. Gateway endpoint
Interface endpoints represent can be can connect your VPC with a lot of different kinds of AWS resources (S3, even bridge, etc.). A lot of S&S, SQS, etc. A lot of resources can be connected with VPC. It supports more resources, and if you use interface endpoints, all your traffic is between is within AWS's private link. It's very fast, and it's 100% private. It's internal network. You will never go to a public network. Very safe, but it's more expensive.
Another way is gateway endpoint. Gateway endpoint has no fee using this service, there's no fee, but for data transfer, etc., you have regular charges. So, using interface endpoint itself, the service already there is a fee. Okay, using gateway endpoint because it's free, but it only supports between VPC and S3 or Dynodb. It only supports two services that are not in a VPC. You got it?
So, when you create an endpoint on the console, first, you need to choose is interface or gateway. Second, you need to choose which service you want to connect to the VPC (S3 or Dynodb or other services). This one is very cheap because S3 and Dynodb are very widely used, so it's very economic when we use Gateway Endpoint. When we use gateway endpoint, we don't use private link. It's not internal network. It's AWS's backbone network is not a private network or as fast as the private link. For safety, definitely private link is much better, but it's more expensive. But using AWS's own backbone still the performance is very good, is better than having internet, and the security is also very good because it's AWS's own network.
How to config this? A lot of steps. We can watch some videos or some instructions, some official documentations on AWS to learn that by ourselves.AWS transit getway，They have their own connection. That's their backbone network. When we say internet, we have internet's backbone network. And AWS has its own backbone network. That's the interconnection between their networks, between continents. Okay, so now we learned we can use VPC curing with other VPCs. So if you have VPC one, VPC two, VPC three, VPC four, if every part, every pair has to be paired, have to be paired, you are going to have a pretty big messy diagram of your VPC access, right? So we had a lot of VPCs. So in that case, VPC curing is not a good solution. VPC curing usually is not good for more than three or four VPCs. If you have more VPCs, we have another service which is called AWS Transit Gateway. AWS Transit Gateway is a hub and spoke device to allow you to register your VPCs to Transit Gateway and then you modify the route table of these VPCs and then you can restrict. So this VPC can only access this VPC. You can modify the route table of this VPC and allow the traffic go to this VPC through Transit Gateway. So using this hub and spoke management is much easier. To avoid the messy topology of your network data loop, okay? Now let's do an activity together. In this network diagram we have region, VPC, and public subnet and what is Q2? Yeah, it is a private subnet. Okay, so now Q1 is connected with this route table and with, what is this? Internet gateway. Internet gateway. So what is this? NAT gateway. NAT gateway. So if Q1 is NAT gateway, okay, so what is Q2? Private route table. Route table. Yeah, it's a private route table attached to this one, right? This is the internet gateway. What is Q1 here? It's an AC. Yeah, it's an AC. Yeah, it is an AC. Okay, so, what is this device? It's an ENI. ENI, yes. Elastic Natural Interface, right? Perfect, you guys have very good memory. You already memorized the ENI. So this is an elastic natural interface, so we can attach this to this EC2 instance. What is—this is very hard to guess. This is just being route, okay? We route the traffic from internet gateway to—what should be here? 0 dot 1 This will be the IPA and Q3 should be the IP of here, right? Perfect! You guys are so smart. You see this is our answer, okay? After today's class go through the academy course module 5 find this demo watch it just a few minutes okay watch it and then find the time to do that I'm going to make the lab announcement on Brightspace and you do it on AWS. Thank you. We didn't mention what is then for actually yeah virtual private cloud we mentioned this in the last lecture when we learned the employment models right virtual private cloud is present it's a segment on the public cloud number two which controls natural traffic in that segment yes raw table is not elastic IP it has something attached to different interfaces number three subnets can overlap it cannot be wrong on this one this question is not 100% right it should be subnets in one PC and that overlap right which is the largest IPv4 side block yes the last one the smaller that number after the slash means the bigger the IP range we have right because we have more bits for the flexible IP address.

What is an elastic network interface? It's a virtual network card you generate on the console again it's not a physical switch at least it's an interface it's not a switch right and also it's not physical anything we generate on the cloud is virtualized.

Which VPC resource is remappable? I just mentioned this word remap something what is trash we remap something to another one what is that yes elastic IP do you remember PC1 crashes we remap the elastic IP of EC1 to EC2 right now let's look at number three.
